Keystone Symposia | Scientific Conferences on Biomedical and Life Science Topics
Home | My Account | Shopping Cart
0
Advanced
Santa Fe Community Convention Center
General Info/Weather  |  Travel/Transportation Info
Santa Fe Community Convention Center Contact Information:
201 West Marcy Santa Fe, New Mexico 87501-2032
USA
World Clock (Find out the time anywhere in the world)
Elevation: 7000' (2134m)  About the altitude...
Meetings at this Location
Select a meeting below for specific information about Santa Fe Community Convention Center:
Drug Discovery for Protozoan Parasites (J1)    January 15 - 20, 2012  (Meeting has ended)
Fungal Pathogens (J2)    January 15 - 20, 2012  (Meeting has ended)
Obesity (J7)    January 29 - February 3, 2012  (Meeting has ended)
Pathogenesis of Diabetes (J8)    January 29 - February 3, 2012  (Meeting has ended)
General Information/Weather
The Santa Fe Community Convention Center is located within a few blocks of the Santa Fe marketplace, where local Indians exhibit and sell their hand-crafted products. Museums, art galleries and restaurants are easily accessible. Downhill and cross-country skiing is available at the nearby Santa Fe Ski Basin. Keystone Symposia will arrange a complimentary ski shuttle from the hotel to the Santa Fe Ski Basin.
· Tip #1: The historic downtown of Santa Fe and a rental car agency are within a 1/4 block. · Tip #2: Spouses are able to receive full day discount lift tickets by purchasing lift tickets with the attending participant. · Tip #3: When traveling to the United States be sure to contact your Embassy for current Entry Requirements. To locate an Embassy near you visit http://embassyinformation.com. For USA Visa information visit http://travel.state.gov/visa/visa_1750.html.
Food/Dining Notes: The food included will be:
buffet breakfast (each day of the meeting except departure day) coffee breaks, and social hour with light snacks during poster sessions. However the food offered varies site by site. Menus for daily food offered will be posted as well as menus for the area. Social Hour is provided to give conferees an opportunity to socialize, have a light snack and participate in the poster session. Limited seating is available.
WEATHER NOTE:
Even if you are NOT participating in outdoor activities we suggest you bring clothes appropriate for local weather temperatures. The meetings are "resort casual" in dress (khakis, jeans, casual shirts, sweaters). Clothes that can be layered for outdoor/indoor environment will work best.
Weather from the Weather Channel
Additional weather resources from USA TODAY
Travel/Transportation Information
Map and Directions from Airport Detailed map of area and directions from recommended airport.  Airport Lodging Notes: The Crowne Plaza Albuquerque is offering a discounted corporate rate of $99/night. This discounted rate is available pre and post of the meeting dates. Please call the Crowne Plaza Albuquerque directly at 866.384.4934 (US and Canada) or 505.884.2500 and request the Keystone Symposia corporate rate.  Ground Transportation:
For transportation from the Albuquerque Airport to Santa Fe, call Sandia Shuttle Express at 888-775-5696 (In US & Canada), 505-474-5696.
To see the full schedule visit www.sandiashuttle.com. Please note the schedule is limited, so please plan accordingly. The cost is $40.00 round trip or $20.00 one way. NO ONLINE BOOKING. Advance reservations by phone, with credit card, are required; use the group code Keystone when booking your reservation in order to receive this rate. Reservations require a
24-Hour Cancellation Notice. The check-in counter at the Albuquerque Airport is inside the terminal, on the Baggage Claim level across from Southwest baggage carousel #3.
**Please note Sandia Shuttle
does not provide transfers from the Santa Fe Regional Airport.**
Another option for transportation from the Albuquerque Airport to Santa Fe is The New Mexico Rail Runner Express which now runs all the way to Santa Fe and has a day pass rate of $7.00 if purchased online at http://www.nmrailrunner.com/.
The Santa Fe Pick-up has begun making rounds of Santa Fe's downtown area, designed to help give train passengers a way to get around once they step off the Rail Runner Express.
The service is free to anyone.
Routes start and end in front of the New Mexico Film Museum (the former Jean Cocteau Cinema) on Montezuma Avenue and run counterclockwise around downtown with stops at the Capitol/PERA building, the Cathedral Basilica of St. Francis of Assisi, the Main Library, City Hall, the Santa Fe Community Convention Center/Santa Fe Plaza and Eldorado/Hilton hotels.
Stops are marked "Pick It Up Here." An entire route takes about 18 minutes. The shuttles are scheduled to run from 6:30 a.m. to 6:30 p.m. Monday through Friday, and 7:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. Saturday. There is no Sunday service. There are 10 routes on weekdays and six on Saturday, each synchronized with the arrivals and departures of the trains.
To view a schedule please click here.
Driving Directions: From Albuquerque International Airport to Santa Fe is a 65 mile drive.
Follow the signs approximately 1 mile (1.6 km) to North Interstate 25, approximately 49 miles (78 km) take Exit 276B, onto SR-599 North, signed "Taos, Espanola, Los Alamos." At the end of SR-599, stay in the right lane, which exits into South 84/285 heading into Santa Fe. Approximately 0.5 miles (0.8 km) on the left is an exit signed "Downtown Plaza, Museums." Exit
