X-Pad: avoid browser bug
Kentucky Somerset Facilities
Event Services:
Get Listed FREE
Register Now
Bookmark This Page
Tell A Friend
Links
Kentucky Somerset
Somerset Kentucky Facilities
From a hotel ballroom to an outdoor ampitheater - find the perfect location for your event. Contact the facilities listed here to host your event whether its a wedding reception or a bar mitzvah.
List Your Business FREE
Home
Members
Photographers
Catering
Entertainment
Equipment
Facilities
Videographers
Marketing
Services
Flowers & Decor
Invitations & Printing
Wedding Planners
User Support
Kentucky Facilities
Add A Free Listing
The Barn at Redgate |
| Somerset, KY
Whether planning a wedding, reception, Christmas party, specialty party, reunion or corporate event/mtg, the Barn at Redgate can accommodate your needs. Please call 606-224-2800 for information and reservations.
Dogtown LLC |
Lexington, KY
Located in downtown Lexington, KY. We have plenty of indoor space including a basketball court. We also have over 5000 sq ft of outdoor, fenced-in area.
National
Denise Bibro Fine Art |
| New York, NY
A Chelsea art gallery with 2 separate spaces and a total of 4000 square feet. Mingle among original works of art--A unique and intimate venue for your next event.
Lakeside Reflections |
| Jeffersonville, IN
Lakeside Reflections is a full service banquet facility that specializes in upscale wedding ceremonies and receptions at affordable prices. You can take a virtual tour at www.lakesidereflections.com or call 812-282-5425
Cedar Ridge |
| Seymour, IN
For Your Outdoor Celebrations - A beautiful outdoor event facility nestled in the rolling hills of northern Jackson County Indiana, available to host your wedding ceremony, reception, reunion, business outing, or other special outdoor event.812-497-3518
Dublin USA Music & Motors |
| Dublin, GA
Designing, Promoting, & Producing televised celebrity fundraisers since 1989 worldwide. Dublin USA multipurpose venue for special event use. Raising money for charities.
Trapeze School New York |
New York, NY
Trapeze School New York produces distinctive, year-round parties and events in our stunning Manhattan location. Flying trapeze plus a variety of other fun, unique activities will ensure an experience your group will never forget.
The Pick Inn |
Gallatin, TN
Private hilltop setting overlooking a lake. Log home with dressing areas. Park-like grounds with big pavilion. Tables & chairs for 100 @ no extra cost. Ample parking. It's a little closer to heaven at the Pick Inn! Visit jimandjesse.com & click Pick Inn!
Other Somerset Kentucky listings
The Barn at Redgate |
| Somerset, KY
Whether planning a wedding, reception, Christmas party, specialty party, reunion or corporate event/mtg, the Barn at Redgate can accommodate your needs. Please call 606-224-2800 for information and reservations.
For Grace Photography |
| Berea, KY
Reasonable Outstanding Portraiture for HALF the price of everyone else. Let me capture those moments you'll never want to forget at a price you can afford. www.forgracephotography.net
Manis Productions |
Elizabethtown, KY
High Quality Wedding Videos, Picture Videos, DVD Duplication, Website Development, 8mm Transfer and More. Serving Louisville, Elizabethtown, Lexington, Bowling Green, and all of Central Kentucky.
CHRIS HALEY |
| Paris, KY
OASIS TENTS & EVENT RENTALS OFFERS A LARGE ASSORTMENT OF TENTS, TABLES, CHAIRS, LINENS, LIGHTING, STAGING, WEDDING SUPPLIES, CATERING EQUIPMENT, PROPS, THEME / HOLIDAY DECOR, SIGNS AND BANNERS.
The Retro Cruisers band |
| Owensboro, KY
Remember when there were REAL guitar heroes and arena anthems? The days before rap, hip-hop, MTV, and goth? Now you can relive those days!
Join The Retro Cruisers on a musical journey to Boston, Memphis, Detroit, England, & LA
