Is it Useful for You to Own a Mini-Notebook or Netbook? | Mobile Computing
Mobile Computing Article
Is it Useful for You to Own a Mini-Notebook or Netbook?
By Expert Author: Stuart Michael
We all see that laptops and notebooks are helpful tools that provide for work, studies and fun purposes. Now we have the latest trend in the market which is the mini-notebook. It is more widely known as netbook. It is small with only 13 inches measurement for its screen. Various major computer companies are having these cool devices on sale. If you are planning to get one, it is better to properly understand its functions in order to know that this is what exactly will meet your needs. Here will help you to make up your mind whether to purchase one or not.
First of all, let us see the good sides of the mini-notebook functions. It is smaller and lighter in comparison to other general laptops or notebooks. It is like a standard normal book which could be easily carried with the hand. Since it is so portable, an individual could bring it to wherever he or she wants to travel to. It could be light in the bag and there more spaces in the bag where other things could also be stuffed in. Ladies will especially appreciate this as she may have keys, make-up things, tissues, mobile phone and water bottle to carry together. With conventional notebook, one may have to carry a separate bag just for the device. Another advantage is that it does function fully as any computer. It has all the main operating system and applications, ports for connections, Wi-Fi, webcam, CD-ROM or burner and functional keyboard. Apart from that, the price and cost is low and affordable. Thenetbook would not cost much higher than any ordinary laptop or notebook and it is inexpensive for anyone to purchase. Overall, this small device is for those who are always on the go for businesses in usages of e-mail and quick note-taking. It is also for students to carry for typing lecture notes rather than writing down.
Here comes the downside of this small computer. Although it is fully functional, it has limitations. The processor plus the memory are lower in speed and it causes a file to be played slower. For example, a video may pause by itself and then continues playing. It may repeat the same over and over again. While downloading files, there may be complications too. The smaller screen and keyboard may pose a problem depending on different users. If you are planning to do major work with long hours, it is advise not to buy this type of computer as the battery life will not support longer hours like conventional laptop does.
In the end it is up to you whether to own a mini-notebook depending on what your usages are.
About the Author: Stuart Michael
Author recommends Tech-FAQ for more information on topics such as
QWERTY
and
Mini Notebook. You may visit for more details.
Article Source: http://www.articlesphere.com/Article/Is-it-Useful-for-You-to-Own-a-Mini-Notebook-or-Netbook-/238244
Article Tags: mini-notebook, netbook
This Article has been viewed {article.article_downloads} times.
Tweet
Related Articles
Listed below are more articles related to the above article from the "Mobile Computing" article category.
People interested in the above article "Is it Useful for You to Own a Mini-Notebook or Netbook?" are also interested in the related articles listed below:
Mobile Application Development for Complete Mobile Solutions This generation is popular with mobile technology it's known as mobile era. Now a day's, every people knowing the booming age for mobile application development market. This has trapped a value of every mobile and technology fan in recent times and mobile technology demand in the market have grown very hastily.Mobile SMS-safe application Mobile sms-safety app is a security functions that does not show up your private data like your message inbox contents and Gallery pictures on your mobile phone. With this app installed on your phone, you could protect your privacy from unauthorized people from manipulation your reputation. A simple sms might be having critical data like your credit card pin number or acute information regarding your business transaction. In any case however, the phone data is retained on the mobile phone in an encrypted format thereby making it convenient to restore whenever desired.Five Important Factors for a Successful Enterprise Mobility Strategy The need was not felt until the world realized the power of mobility. Mobile Applications were limited as data exchange was uncommon, and the devices themselves functioned in isolation from one another. Enterprises were unaware of the benefits that could be reaped from mobility. With advancement of mobile technologies most enterprises have started understanding that mobility can bring enormous advantages yet many enterprises are not sure how best to optimize and customize these benefits. A right way to go about this for an Enterprise is to build a good mobility strategy.New Samsung Series 9 notebooks outed: Core i3, i5 and i7 options Here comes good news for techie freak. Samsung has outed a new range of Series 9 notebooks, with three new 13.3-inch models and two new 11.6-inch models, priced from $1,049. The new Series 9 machines keep the styling of the models that began shipping in May, but add in new Intel Core i3, i5 and i7 processors, up to 256GB SSDs and up to 6GB of DDR3 memory.Mobile Backup and Security Application The data occupying the smartphone memories are very large and highly personal. The possible loss of data can happen not only due to a theft of the phone but also due to other mishaps like a clumsy moment that might destroy the phone as a whole! It is in such unexpected moments the users hope for having a backup of their important data.Toshiba Mini NB505-N508 No matter which of the 5 colors you choose (turquoise, blue, brown, lime green, and orange), the Toshiba Mini NB505-N508 netbook is a pretty solid buy considering its $300 price tag. Though the model is missing a Gigabit Ethernet port and Bluetooth connectivity, the integrated Wi-Fi, 3 USB ports and SD card reader make up for its shortcomings. The 8-hour battery life is extended by the energy efficient LED-backlit screen and single-core Intel Atom N455 processor.Is the Apple Ipad All It's Cracked Up to Be? On the 2nd of March 2011 Apple iPad 2 was launched. Indeed this launch was expected. There are over 15 million proud owners of 1st generation iPad. Within a span of three months the subsequent generation iPad was introduced in the market. The iPad 2 has some unique features such as the design, email, music, photo albums, e Books and videos. The processor is very fast and has A5 chip as well as a dual core CPU. Thus its graphics are practically 10 times speedier.
Print Article
Favorite Article
Email to Friend
Republish Article
Article Directory Home
All Categories
Computer And Technology
Mobile Computing
Is it Useful for You to Own a Mini-Notebook or Netbook?
Can't find what you're looking for? Try Google Search!
(We serve worldwide -
Locations updated as at Friday, 02 March 2012 05:01 am
, Singapore)
United States of America, USA . United Kingdom, UK (England, Scotland, Wales, Northern Ireland) . Canada . Afghanistan .
Albania . Algeria . American Samoa . Andorra . Angola . Anguilla . Antarctica . Antigua & Barbuda . Argentina .
Armenia . Aruba . Australia . Austria . Azerbaijan . Bahamas . Bahrain . Bangladesh . Barbados . Belarus .
Belgium . Belize . Benin . Bermuda . Bhutan . Bolivia . Bonaire . Bosnia-Herzegovina . Botswana . Brazil . British
Virgin Islands . Brunei Darrusalam . Bulgaria . Burkina Faso . Burundi . Cambodia . Cameroon . Cape Verde . Cayman
Islands . Central African Republic . Chad . Channel Islands . Chile . China . Christmas Island . Colombia . Comoros .
Congo . Congo (Dem. Rep.) . Cook Islands . Costa Rica . Cote d'Ivoire . Croatia . Cuba . Curacao . Cyprus . Czech
Republic . Denmark . Djibouti . Dominica . Dominican Republic . East Timor . Ecuador . Egypt . El Salvador .
Equatorial Guinea . Eritrea . Estonia . Ethiopia . Falkland Islands and Dependencies . Faroe Islands . Fiji . Finland .
France . French Guiana
. French Polynesia . Gabon . Gambia . Gaza . Georgia . Germany . Ghana . Gibraltar . Greece .
Greenland . Grenada . Guadeloupe . Guam . Guatemala . Guinea . Guinea-Bissau . Guyana . Haiti . Hawaiian Islands .
Honduras . Hong Kong . Hungary . Iceland . India . Indonesia . Iran . Iraq . Isle Of Man . Israel . Italy .
Ivory Coast . Jamaica . Japan . Johnston Atoll . Jordan . Kazakhstan . Kenya . Kiribati . Korea (North) .
Korea (South) . Kuwait . Kyrgyzstan . Laos . Latvia . Lebanon . Leeward Islands . Lesotho . Liberia . Libya .
Liechtenstein . Lithuania . Luxembourg . Macau . Macedonia . Madagascar . Malawi . Malaysia . Maldives . Mali .
Malta . Marshall Islands . Martinique . Mauritania . Mauritius . Mexico . Micronesia (Federated States) . Midway
Islands . Moldova . Monaco . Mongolia . Montserrat . Morocco . Mosquito Coast . Mozambique . Myanmar (Burma) .
Namibia . Nauru . Navassa Island . Nepal . Netherlands . Netherlands Antilles . New Caledonia . New Zealand .
Nicaragua . Niger . Nigeria . Niue . Norfolk Island . Northern Mariana Islands . Norway . Oman . Pakistan . Palau .
Palestine . Panama . Papua New Guinea . Paracel Islands . Paraguay . Peru . Philippines . Pitcairn Islands . Poland .
Portugal . Puerto Rico . Qatar . Reunion . Romania . Russia . Rwanda . Ryukyu Islands . Saint Helena . Saint Kitts
and Nevis . Saint Lucia . Saint Pierre & Miquelon . Saint Vincent & The Grenadines . Samoa . San Marino . Sao Tome &
Principe . Saudi Arabia . Senegal . Serbia . Seychelles . Sierra Leone . Singapore . Slovakia . Slovenia . Solomon
Islands . Somalia . South Africa . Spain . Sri Lanka . Sudan . Suriname . Swaziland . Sweden . Switzerland . Syria .
Taiwan . Tajikistan . Tanzania . Thailand . Togo . Tonga . Transkei . Trinidad & Tobago . Tunisia . Turkey .
Turkmenistan . Turks and Caicos Islands . Tuvalu . US Virgin Islands . Uganda . Ukraine . United Arab Emirates .
Upper Volta . Uruguay . Uzbekistan . Vanuatu . Vatican City (Holy See) . Venezuela . Vietnam . Wake Island .
Windward Islands . Yemen . Yugoslavia . Zaire . Zambia . Zimbabwe
Copyright © 2005 -
by Larry Lim, Singapore - Article Search Engine Directory at ArticleSphere.com™
All Rights Reserved Worldwide. All Trademarks
