Timex - DP00
Large Range of Online Shopping /
Valentine Day Gifts to India
Sign In or create a New Account
View Cart
My Account
Help
SEARCH :
Search by Category
---- All shop category ----
Apparels & Accessories
Cakes & Chocolates
Diwali Gifts
Flowers
Handicraft Gifts
Jewelry
Rakhi Gifts
Sweets & Dryfruits
Valentines Day Gifts
FOR
HOME
Send Rakhi to India
Designer Sarees
Salwar Kameez
FAQ
CONTACT US
ARTICLES
Home » Mothers Day Gifts » Indian Jewelry » Earrings
» Timex - DP00
PRODUCT DETAIL
Timex - DP00
Item Code
:
GC 1980
Our Price
:
Rs. 2395.00[ USD 56.35 ]
Qty
:
This Product Shipped to following Country : India
Enlagre Image
Email a Friend
Product Description
Timex Gender : Ladies.
Dial Colour : White.
Warranty : 1 year from the date of purchase.
Please Note:
Please allow 5 - 7 days for delivery.
All products come with the manufacturer warranty.
Prices include taxes and delivery charges.
If the selected color of dial is not available, an alternate in the same model and value will be deliver.
Email a Friend
Your Friend's Info
Your Friend's Email:*
(Please send it to all your friends - just separate each email address with a comma.)
Your Info
Your Name :
*
Your Email Address : *
Write Your Friend a Message :
(optional)
Sorry, The Quantity you have requested is out of stock..
Product successfully added in your wishlist..
Product successfully added in your cart..
Please login to add this product in your wishlist..
SHOPPING CART
Hot Deal
Ferrero Rocher Chocolate - 16pcs
Our Price : Rs. 400
Kids Laptop
Market Price : Rs. 850
Our Price : Rs. 549
Send Gifts to India
Birthday flowers, wedding cakes, anniversary gifts to India and more... same day (express) delivery available on flowers, cakes & chocolates
Diwali Gifts to India
Diwali Gifts, Diwali Pooja Thali, Sweets, Chocoaltes, Mithai, Diya Delivery in India.
Gift Vouchers
Westside, Crossword, Raymond, Pantaloons, Big Bazaar
GiftstoIndians.com is an online gifting service provider for the Indian community residing outside of India and whose friends and family is in India. GiftstoIndians.com offers express delivery (24 Hours / Same Day delivery) on cakes and flowers in India. We delivery Gifts, Chocolates, Sweets, Flowers, Cakes for all occassions and festival such as Birthday, Wedding, Anniversary, Diwali Gifts, Christmas Gifts, New Year Gifts, Valentine's Day Gifts, Holi Gifts, Mother's Day Gifts, Father's Day Gifts, Friendship Day Gifts, Rakhi Gifts etc. Send gifts to India in more than 2000 towns and cities including Ahmedabad, Bardoa, Surat, Rajkot, Bombay / Mumbai, Gujarat, Chennai, Hyderabad, Delhi / New Delhi, Pune, Agra, Calcutta / Kolkata, Bangalore, Kerala, Punjab, Jaipur, Noida, Secundrabad, Jallundhar, Amritsar, Chandigarh, Indore, Mohali, Patna and rest of India
