Obituaries
Higby Mortuary
Lucile Parker
Lucile Parker, age 94, of Aurora, died Saturday, August 28, 2004, at Memorial Community Care.
Funeral Services will be held 1:00 P.M. Thursday, September 2nd at the Higby-McQuiston Chapel. Rev. James Keyser will officiate.
A Private family burial will follow the service at the Aurora Cemetery.
There will be no visitation.
Memorials may be made to the Memorial Hospital Foundation, 1423 Seventh Street, Aurora, NE
68818.
Condolences may be e-mailed to the family through the mortuary website at higbymortuary.com.
OBITUARY:	LUCILE PARKER
Lucile Margaret Parker, the daughter of Frank L. and Mabel (Cavanaugh) Gleich, was born in Platte, South Dakota on July 7, 1910 and died in Aurora, Nebraska on August 28, 2004, at the age of 94.
She was raised in Gayville and Yankton, South Dakota, where she graduated from high school.
Lucile was united in marriage to Gerald L. (Jerry) Parker on August 17, 1930 at Yankton, South Dakota.
Jerry worked for the J.C. Penney Company, in Yankton, Sioux Falls, and Huron, South Dakota.
He became manager of the Penney's store in Superior, Nebraska and Lucile worked for the Superior Express newspaper.
They lived in Superior for 21 years, where they raised their family.
In 1965, they moved to Aurora and opened "Parkers of Aurora".
In 1973, they retired and moved to Estes Park, Colorado, where they lived for 18 years.
In 1991, they returned to Aurora.
Jerry passed away on October 23, 1997.
Lucile was a member of Aurora Presbyterian United Church of Christ, where over the years she served on many committees.
She was a member of the PEO and DAR, the Memorial Hospital Auxiliary and the Women's Club, both in Superior and Aurora.
She was preceded in death by her parents, her husband, a sister, Marjorie Gordon and a great-granddaughter, Abby McMinn.
Those left to cherish her memory are her three children, Joanne Howard of Edwards, CO and Bonita Springs, FL, David Parker of Lincoln, NE and Dr. Richard Parker of Denver, CO; 9 grandchildren; 21 great-grandchildren and 5 great great-grandchildren.
She is also survived by a sister, Helen Kost of Aurora and a brother, Robert Gleich of Veneta, OR
