Himalaya Journeys
Back
Printed from:
Nepal Special Package Trips Itinerary
Day 01: Arrival in Kathmandu.
Arrival in kathmandu, Himalaya Journey Treks & Expedition airport
representative will transfer to hotel, adventures tour briefing with
officially arrangements. Overnight at hotel.
Day 02 : Kathmandu
City Tour.
After your breakfast, starts your sightseeing tour around Kathmandu Valley
( Pashupatinath, Bouddha Nath, Swayambhu).
Day 03 : Kathmandu -
Bhaktapur - Nagarkot
Drive to Bhaktapur after breakfast. Sightseeing at
Bhaktapur heritage city.
Drive to Nagarkot and overnight at hotel.
Nagarkot is a popular hill site of Nepal. It is situated 32 K.M from Kathmandu. It can be seen the panorama of eastern
mountain range of Nepal
(including Mt. Everest.). Next fact: Nagarkot is famous
for viewing sunset & sunrise.
Day 04 : Nagarkot - pokhara
Breakfast and drive to pokhara for panoramic Himalayan scenery
including the Mt. Annapurna 8091m, Mt. Fish tail /Machhapuchhare 6998m,
Hiunchuli 6441m, Mt. Dhaulagiri 8167m , Lamjung Himal 6988m etc. overnight at
pokhara.
Day 05 : Excursion around Pokhara valley- pokhara valley sightseeing
Breakfast and sightseeing around pokhara valley including, visit in
Mahendra cave, visit David fall, visit in Mahendra bridge. Overnight at
pokhara.
Day 06 : Pokhara
Breakfast and Free day in Pokhara for boating in Fewa lake and relaxing
with own activities overnight at pokhara.
Day 07 : Pokhara - Chitwan.
After breakfast drive to Chitwan. Chitwan means Chitwan National Park
where offer many jungle activities. The park is listed on the world heritage
site and protected as green forest. The park is famous for birds and animal
including one horned Rhino and Bengal Tiger.
Have a lunch on your arrival in Chitwan. After refreshment, start Jungle Safari
activists (village tour village, Tharu culture dance, Slight show presentation)
and Dinner.
Day 08 : Chitwan
Breakfast early in the morning and continue the Jungle Safari activities (Canoe
ride, Bird watching, Jungle walk) and Lunch about 13:00
Again start Jungle Safari activities (Elephant Safari; an
excellent opportunity to see four different kinds of deer, rhinoceros,
wild bore, monkey, leopard, sloth bear and the Royal Bengal tiger, also encounter many other smaller mammals).
Evening: Tharu culture dance presentation or Slid show presentation and Dinner.
Day 09 : Chitwan - Kathmandu
Breakfast and Visit to the government elephant breeding centre and drive
from Chitwan to Kathmandu. Overnight at Hotel
