Tokyo Gore Police DVD Review | Digital Retribution
HOME
|
REVIEWS
|
FEATURES
|
RELEASE DATES
|
GIVEAWAYS
|
CONTACT
|
|
Tokyo Gore Police
(2008)
By: Julian on May 29, 2009
|
Comments (3)
|
Eastern Eye (Australia). Region 4, PAL. 1.78:1 (16:9 enhanced). Japanese DD 5.1, Japanese DD 2.0, English DD 5.1, English DD 2.0. English Subtitles. 105 minutes
The Movie
Cover Art
Credits
Director:
Yoshihiro Nishimura
Starring:
Eihi Shiina, Itsuji Itao, 	Yukihide Benny, Shun Sugata, Keisuke Horibe
Screenplay: Kengo Kaji, Sayako Nakoshi, Yoshihiro Nishimura
Country: Japan
External Links
Yeah,
so I confess – the only reason I was
drawn to Tokyo Gore
Police was because its title was Tokyo Gore Police. But I did know a bit about this flick before diving in blind; namely
some delightful accusations that it was the most ball-tearing Eastern
gore flick since Riki-Oh, and that it starred Audition's
über-bitch Eihi Shiina battling it out with a katana against
mutants. The deal, as they say, was sealed.
Tokyo
Gore Police posits a futuristic Tokyo where the mean streets are
commandeered by the "Engineers". The Engineers are the hideously
mutated products of macabre human experiments in which people are
infected by a strain of DNA synthesised from that of various serial
killers, turning them into homicidal maniacs. The Engineers are also
able to turn any injury they sustain into a lethal weapon, with some
genuinely repulsive results. The only thing that stops the Engineers
entirely is the severing of the offending strand of DNA, a solid
key-shaped growth that may be removed upon autopsy. Little is known
about the Engineers and the only obstacle to their objective of
unrelentingly terrorising the streets of Tokyo is the local police
force, a recently privatised behemoth that is absolutely ruthless in
its approach to the mutants.
The
stellar member of Tokyo's boys and girls in blue is Ruka (Shiina),
a pretty young thing who's pretty handy with a samurai sword. Ruka
is haunted by the murder of her father, a Tokyo cop who was brutally
gunned down in the streets, and she is set on finding his assassin in
amongst the various arse-kickery that comes with cleaning the streets
of mutants that would make the X-Men wince. Her investigations lead
her to the "Key Man", who is deeply involved with both her
father's murder and the Engineers.
The
director of Tokyo Gore Police is Yoshihiro Nishimura, who
gained tremendous cult acclaim with his special effects work on the
2008 film The Machine Girl.
The roots of Tokyo Gore Police began with Media Blasters, the company that co-prodcued The
Machine Girl, when they suggested Nishimura helm his own feature.
Nishimura opted to remake one of his short films, the 1995 flick Anatomia Extinction. Tak Sakaguchi, best known in cult circles
for his starring role in Ryuhei Kitamura's Versus, was
brought on as fight choreographer and Nishimura assembled a cult star
cast, including Shiina.
If
you're expecting anything remotely coherent, Tokyo Gore Police isn't the movie for you; perhaps it's best thought of as the
hell-spawn of Cronenberg and Miike, with a dollop of Lynch. Nishimura
has adopted for a "low on brains, high on brawn" approach, and by
God is it high on brawn – when the claret is spilled it rivals Braindead for sheer viscera and the comparisons to Riki-Oh are more than valid. Unfortunately, the absolutely threadbare
plot is frequently lost in the pink mist (or rather deep-red showers;
it's the House of Blue Leaves in colour, for 105 minutes) and a
major fault is that it's just too long. About twenty minutes could
have easily been shorn off the running time to make Tokyo
Gore Police a very lean, mean little exercise in bloodshed.
Nishimura errs on the side of self-indulgence and just before the
hyper-frenetic conclusion finally kicks in it's beginning to get a
little tiresome.
Something
should be said here about the social commentary that is so central to Tokyo Gore Police and makes up a lot of its charm. Nishimura
has peppered fake advertisements throughout the film, some boasting
the sheer sadistic prowess of the police in their Darth Vader
get-ups, others advertising razors that are easier to self-mutilate
with. While the parallels to Starship Troopers are clear,
Nishimura does a really good job with them for the most part –
they're incredibly blackly funny and do the whole satirical bit
quite well. The only input Nishimura had in these segments was
supervision and make-up effects. Instead, they were directed by
Noboru "The Machine Girl" Iguchi and Yûdai Yamaguchi,
director of the 2003 cult hit Battlefield Baseball. In one
interview, Nishimura said his main reasoning behind including the
advertisements was to lighten the tone of the picture and his desire
to make some sort of social comment drawing upon his legal college
education.
Nishimura's
own special effects mob Nishimura Motion Picture Model Makers Group
is responsible for the special effects and for the most part they're
done really well. Some of these creatures are disgusting, nightmarish
things and that's a real testament to Nishimura's company's
creativity – particular kudos goes towards the crocodile mermaid
and, to paraphrase the irate cop from The Doors, "the guy
with the brain".
In
amongst all of the madness, the incoherence, the blood and satire, Tokyo Gore Police is a pretty good film. Even though it
outstays its welcome at 105 minutes, it's a quirky Japanese riff on
Cronenbergian body horror and the Eastern blood movie that's well
worth your time.
Video
Picture is presented in 1:85:1, with 16:9 enhancement. Although obviously shot on video, the image is very clear. No complaints here.
Audio
A fair smorgasbord of audio tracks are available depending on your technological capabilities or language preference – two Japanese Dolby tracks in 2.0 and 5.1 and two English Dolby tracks in 2.0 and 5.1. I'm dead-set against the inferior dubbed tracks so the Japanese 5.1 was the way to go for me and it sounded terrific.
English subtitles are also provided.
Extra Features
This disc is light on extras – a theatrical trailer, extended promo trailer and stills gallery have been provided. However, the US Media Blasters disc is lighter still, including only a theatrical trailer. The local release is the way to go at the moment.
The Verdict
A wildly entertaining film, even if it's just for the sheer spectacle of the thing. It gets a bit tired towards the middle and when exploring some very impossible connections between the Key Man and Ruka, but hey – it's grisly, ultra-violent Japanese mayhem at its delirious high point. Oh, did I mention there were mutants?
3
Reader Comments
Share:
Fat Boy Pete on 06/27/2009 @ 12:18
Comment # 3 of 3
Crazy gore. One of the goriest movies ever released in Australia for sure.
Rip on 05/30/2009 @ 16:59
Comment # 2 of 3
Good review. I preferred MACHINE GIRL in some ways, but perhaps because it was tighter. TOKYO GORE POLICE is great fun, but is way overlong.
MaxTheSilent on 05/30/2009 @ 13:26
Comment # 1 of 3
Fun, wacky movie. Far better than the tedious MACHINE GIRL.
Name
E-mail (Optional - Will not appear online)
Comment
Lexx: The Complete Series DVD Review
The Fury DVD Review
The Grey Cinema Review
Lost Highway BD Review
Bloodlust! DVD Review
The Big Heat DVD Review
Damned By Dawn DVD Giveaway
Catwoman DVD Review
Don't Let Him In DVD Giveaway
Killer Elite Cinema Review
Colombiana DVD Review
Seed DVD
Review
The Devil's Rain CD Review
Escapee DVD Giveaway
Shaolin Grandma
DVD Review
A Few Words About Digital Retribution and the Future
Cinema Sex Sirens Book Review
Slaughtered DVD Review
Erotibot DVD Review
Things DVD Review
Australian Horror News and Reviews
Digital Retribution aims to bring you the latest news and reviews from the local genre scene. If you see or hear something that might be of interest to our readers, please get in touch!
For promotional and advertising inquiries, feedback, requests, threats or anything else, visit our Contact Page.
About Digital Retribution
Originally born unto this world
as Terror Australis.net back in March 2002, Digital Retribution is a proudly Australian
website devoted to all things horror, cult, and exploitation
that
strives to promote Australian
