The CillianSite | The Edge of Love (The Daily Mail)
...the source for all things Cillian Murphy
News
Blog Index
Blog Topics
Latest Work
Bio
Bio Narrative
CV
Awards
Body of Work
Feature Films
Shorts
TV
Plays
Press
Feature Stories
Reviews
Gallery
Stage & Screen
Public Appearances
Photoshoots
Article Spreads
Interview Caps
Audio/Video
Extras
Cillian's Playlist
Cillian's Bookshelf
Scripts/Sources
The World of Pluto
Fandom
The CillianSite Top 5
Cillian Encounters
Fan Links
Site
About Us
FAQ
Affiliates & Listings
Site Index
Home --> Press --> Reviews --> Here
The Edge of Love: I can't help doubting Thomas
The Daily Mail
19 June 2008
By Tom Cox
The Edge of Love (15)
Would the world be a better place without its artistic types? I'm usually inclined to think very much not, but there were times while watching the Welsh poet Dylan Thomas in The Edge Of Love when I felt myself being coaxed into seeing a simple solution to the labyrinthine problems of human relationships: cull the oversensitive creatives, and all would be smooth and right.
I'm sure I wasn't supposed to like Thomas, who's played by Matthew Rhys, but I'm not sure if I was supposed to dislike him quite as much as I did.
"I do it, sleep with other women, because I'm a poet and I feed off life," he tells his wife, Caitlin MacNamara (Sienna Miller).
Of course, you could still just about get away with saying that kind of thing with a straight face in 1942, but it's a bit rich coming from a bloke who looks like a losing quarter finalist in a regional Rufus Sewell-lookalike competition and whose poetic contributions of the previous hour have included the ingenious rhyming of the name "Vera" with "Beera".
The Edge Of Love tells the story of the menage a trois between Thomas, Caitlin and his childhood sweetheart Vera (Keira Knightley) and, as such, comes across as a kind of Jules Et Jim for readers of Hello! magazine.
Actually, it's more of a menage a quatre, since loitering on the edge of the threesome is a beleaguered Cillian Murphy, who plays Vera's husband William.
Not only is William by some way the most attractive of these four people; he also has by far the most reasons to feel good about himself.
While Dylan spends his money and tries it on with his missus, William must go and fight for his country. But, even given the role of the mug, Murphy has a psychotic twinkle in his eye that few directors can resist taking advantage of.
When William comes back to the bleak Welsh coast scarred by his war experiences in Greece, matters come to a head. That head has a prominent jaw, and belongs to Miss Knightley.
If you've found Knightley annoying before, the chances are that in this film, directed by John Maybury, you'll find her doubly so. Not only has she hit upon the ugliest Welsh accent imaginable, her preening and pouting has reached a new low.
Worse, it appears to be catching. In a scene where she and Miller—normally an actress much more effortlessly capable of the kind of old-fashioned lens-flirting Knightley seems so frantic to achieve—loll on a bed together in a faux-lesbian manner, there's a genuine worry, just for a moment, that the two of them will merge and become one giant jutting, gurning lower-face.
"What does it mean when she smiles?" one of those closest to Vera asks of her early on, and one senses it's a question Knightley would struggle to answer herself.
If anyone was hoping that this would be a neat World War II companion piece to last year's excellent Atonement—the only film, to my knowledge, where Knightley has ever really relaxed into herself—they'll be disappointed.
The one thing The Edge Of Love does have going for it is a sense of the urgency of love during wartime; the feeling that the rules change and decisions are made more hastily.
That the people involved in this love are largely tedious facsimiles of humankind, however, dulls the impact somewhat. You know you're in trouble when they start referring to each other by their full names ("Vera Phillips"): so often a sign of a screenplay clawingly desperate for romantic credence.
"All you've got is stories in your head, words," Caitlin tells Dylan during one of their many rows. "And I have to be real." But sadly the relationship between Caitlin and Dylan's words seems unreal too: you're never quite convinced as to why his poems cause her to overlook his thickening, selfish form and endure his philandering.
On the occasions when he reads his work to her, she just looks bored, and the scene where they fight after she flushes one of his first drafts down the toilet feels like a caricature of tempestuous artistry.
The central point of the movie is adequately conveyed—that Thomas's "pain" is a piddling, childish thing next to the stuff William has experienced on the front line (most notably the DIY
