Cache-Control: max-age=0
Date: Thu, 01 Mar 2012 22:19:44 GMT
Connection: close
Deadline pressure threatens high-speed rail
-
High Speed Rail
- fresnobee.com
Subscribe to The Bee
E-Bee
Buy Photos
Customer Service
Home
Contact us
Subscribe
News
Breaking news
Local
Crime Map
High-speed rail
Business
State
Nation
World
Elections
Columnists
Videos
Weather
Obits
Death notices
Tributes
Guestbooks
Place an obit: (559) 441-6228
Sports
High Schools
High School Football Blitz
Fresno State Football
Fresno State Bulldogs
Outdoors
Fishing
College
Professional
Columnists
Videos
Entertainment
Calendar
Movies
Movie Times
Music
Theater & Arts
Odd News
Fun & Games
Mike Osegueda
Donald Munro
Rick Bentley
Videos
Life
Faith & Values
Food & Recipes
Home & Garden
Ask Amy
Ron Orozco
Scoopy Squad
Videos
Opinion
Our Opinions
Valley Voices
Other Opinions
Letters to the Editor
Submit a Letter
Columnists
Jim Boren
David Mas Masumoto
Editorial Cartoons
Videos
Blogs
Beehive
Opinion Talk
Sports Buzz
News
Political Notebook
Photos
Central Valley Moms
Fresno Famous
Find n Save
Place an ad
Jobs
Find a job
Post a job
Fresno Job Start
Fresno Bee Jobs
Real estate
Search homes
Find an apartment
New homes map
Real Estate Marketplace
Cars
Buy a car
Sell a car
Easy Find Autos
Classified
E-mmediate
Hot Spot
Legal Notices
Pets/livestock
Real estate
Recreation
Rentals
Yard sales
fresnobee.com
archives
web
Web Search powered by
YAHOO!
SEARCH
Log Out
My Account
SIGN IN
BECOME A MEMBER
You're in the
High Speed Rail
section
Deadline pressure threatens high-speed rail
Experts warn project may already be running late.
By Tim Sheehan / The Fresno Bee
By Tim Sheehan / The Fresno Bee
Saturday, Jan. 22, 2011 | 10:04 PM
Modified Tue, Feb 14, 2012 10:21 AM
E-Mail
Print
Text Size:
tool name
close
tool goes here
0 comments
Authority official Barker thinks seven or eight months is plenty of time for the environmental process, but Moore isn't sure."Those EIRs are going to raise a lot of questions," he said. "If that's a necessary condition for proceeding, that could hold things up."The EIRs also will form the basis for the rail authority's final selection of a route for the tracks between Fresno and Bakersfield.Until that happens, the authority cannot seek or award bids for construction or even start buying the land it needs for the tracks.Engineers and planners also are working on the preliminary design for the system.By the time the authority expects to start soliciting bids from contractors -- late this year or in early 2012 -- this work is expected to be at least 30% complete.Contractors would complete the design and build the system. Under the federal grant agreement, those design-build contracts must be awarded by September 2012.Along the way, the state must submit detailed plans to federal officials for how right of way will be acquired, how roads and utilities will be moved, and how hazardous materials will be handled.But all of that still depends on funding, which is not yet pinned down and faces its own obstacles.Money mattersGov. Jerry Brown and the state Legislature must agree to allocate money from Prop. 1A to match the federal funds. Barker said the authority will seek its first installments of money in the state's 2012-13 budget.Prop. 1A requires that an independent panel of transportation and rail experts approve budget requests before any bonds are sold.The same panel late last year issued a report questioning the authority's lack of a detailed financing and income plan, lack of a business model for operating and managing the system, and lack of staffing to oversee the project.Some legislators also have criticized the authority's preliminary estimates of revenues and ridership as "unrealistic." One example: a projection of as many as 102,700 riders daily on the statewide system, including 4,500 boardings daily in Fresno."Obviously there are challenges and questions, and the onus is on us to address those questions," Barker said. "By the time we bring our budget request, we'll have to have all these questions answered."Should the Legislature reject the budget request, "that would be saying, 'No, we don't want high-speed rail,' " Barker added. "That would be telling the federal government to take back the $2.5 billion and saying we don't want it."If the armful of "ifs" are accomplished -- if the rail authority meets the deadline for environmental review, if it gets money from the Legislature, and if it awards construction contracts in time -- then it's on to the dirty work.Shovels in the groundThe rail authority suggests that building the segments between Merced and Bakersfield will create as many as 80,000 temporary construction jobs between 2012 and 2017.But because only 30% of the engineering is expected to be completed on the project by the time contracts are awarded next year, much work will remain on the drawing board until perhaps 2013 and 2014."We won't have 10,000 hard hats on the ground laying rail in September 2012," said Barker. "Final engineering will be the first phase of work being done."The first work that the public would see is likely to be land acquisition, clearing property and demolishing structures in the path of the tracks, said John Popoff, an engineer on the authority's management team.
Previous PageNext Page
The reporter can be reached at tsheehan@fresnobee.com or (559) 441-6319.
Similar stories:
High-speed rail project likely delayed until 2013
High-speed rail project likely delayed until 2013
Construction of a high-speed train line in the central San Joaquin Valley was supposed to start late this year. Now, officials say, it's not likely to start until early 2013, even if state legislators approve billions in bond money this spring.
High-speed rail route near Hanford reconsidered
High-speed rail route near Hanford reconsidered
A once-scrapped route option for high-speed trains through Kings County is in play again.
A line that bypasses Hanford to the west will be revived by the California High-Speed Rail Authority for consideration. The agency announced Wednesday that it will recall a controversial draft environmental-impact report for its Fresno-Bakersfield section for revisions that are expected to take five to six months.
The delay is based on feedback the rail authority received on the draft environmental report – a massive document of nearly 17,000 pages.
Lawsuits could stall or stop high-speed rail plans
Lawsuits could stall or stop high-speed rail plans
Even if state officials can scrape together the billions of dollars needed to fund California's ambitious high-speed rail plans, lawsuits from local cities and opposition groups still could delay, divert or derail the project altogether.
In the Bay Area, cities and nonprofits are suing over issues with the route and environmental studies. In Southern California, the city of Palmdale has gone to court over fears that rail officials will pull a planned Antelope Valley line through the city and reroute the tracks up Interstate 5 instead.
Perhaps the hardest-fought battle is yet to come in Kings County, where officials and residents say they'll do everything in their power to stop a 100-mile stretch of track from wiping out thousands of acres of prime farmland between Fresno and Bakersfield.
Deal signed for Central Valley part of rail project
Deal signed for Central Valley part of rail project
California High-Speed Rail Authority officials said Wednesday they've signed a cooperative agreement with the Federal Railroad Administration that will provide $928 million in federal funding for the construction of the project's Central Valley segment.
Thomas J. Umberg, Chairman of the California High-Speed Rail Authority board of directors, said in a press release the announcement of the federal funds "makes good on the promise of our new draft business plan that the funding for the first segment is identified, committed, and we are moving forward."
The announcement comes less than a week after the Republican-led Congress voted to kill all high-speed rail funding beyond 2012.
Brown pins legacy to Calif. high-speed rail plans
Brown pins legacy to Calif. high-speed rail plans
Critics have called it the train to nowhere and a $98 billion boondoggle. As concerns mount over the practicality and affordability of California's plan to build a high-speed rail system, even many former supporters are beginning to sound skeptical.
The Bee's story-comment system is provided by Disqus
