Last-Modified: Thu, 15 Sep 2011 19:46:16 GMT
Accept-Ranges: bytes
ETag: "dee6e22e073cc1:dde07"
Server: Microsoft-IIS/6.0
MicrosoftOfficeWebServer: 5.0_Pub
X-Powered-By: ASP.NET
Date: Thu, 01 Mar 2012 17:03:39 GMT
Connection: close
Future Babies Private Ultrasound Scans for pregnant women in Reading, Berkshire - Dating, Sexing, Reassurance, 3D, 4D Scans.
Home
Your
Scan
Early Dating
Scan
Dating
Scan
Reassurance
Scan
Gender
Scan
Growth
Scan
Presentation
Scan
3D/4D
Scan
Personalised
Cover
Soundtrack Options
Keepsakes
Galleries
Testimonials
Contact
Us
About
Future Babies
Job
Opportunities
Contact
Us
Future Babies
Ltd
48 London Street
Reading
Berkshire
RG1 4SQ
Tel: 0118 958 5050
email: info at future-babies. co. uk
The Future Babies Studio is in the centre of Reading, just 2 minutes from the Oracle Shopping Centre. There is ample parking to choose from or Reading train station is only a 10 minute walk away.
The studio is open Monday - Saturday, from 9am to 5pm
Directions...
Below you can find directions to the Future
Babies studio by car, by foot from the closest car parks and by
foot from Reading train station.
We send out a copy of all directions by post
or email with your booking confirmation.
Future Babies is situated in the heart of
Reading town centre. We are just a 2 minute walk from The Oracle shopping Centre car park and the Queens Road car park. Reading train
station is only a 5 minute taxi ride or a 10 minute walk away.
Directions From the A329 (J10 M4)
Come off the M4 motorway at Junction 10
onto the A329 (M) towards Reading
Continue along the A329 and follow signs
for Reading and Suttons Business Park .
Come off the A329 onto the roundabout
signposted Reading and Suttons Business Park .
At the roundabout take the 1st exit for
Reading East and A4. This will take you under a railway bridge.
Continue along the A4 onto the one way
system passing The Granby and the Up in Arms public houses. This
takes you onto London Road .
Continue along London Road , past the
Royal Berkshire Hospital , following signs for the Oracle Shopping
Centre.
Follow the one way system to the right
and onto Southampton Street .
At the Oracle roundabout take the 3rd
exit to park in one of the multi storey car parks.
For the Oracle Car park, you will need
to be in the left hand lane and follow the signs.
For Queens Road car park, continue straight
for 500 metres and it is to the left.
Alternatively, you can take the 4th exit
at the Oracle roundabout, sign posted Aldershot A327 and follow
the one way system onto London Street . Future Babies is the 3rd
shop on the right and there is ample parking on London Street
.
Back to top
Directions from the A33 (J11 M4)
Come off the M4 motorway at junction 11
onto the A33 towards Reading .
Pass the Madejski Stadium (home of Reading football club) and B & Q Warehouse on your left.
Continue straight over all roundabouts
following signs to the Town Centre.
Pass Peter Green on your left and Lock
‘n’ Store on your right.
Move into the right hand lane and follow
signs for The Oracle shopping centre.
At the Oracle roundabout take the 2nd
exit to park in one of the multi storey car parks.
For the Oracle Car park, you will need
to be in the left hand lane and follow the signs.
For Queens Road car park, continue straight
for 500 metres and it is to the left.
Alternatively, you can take the 3rd exit
at the Oracle roundabout, sign posted Aldershot A327 and follow
the one way system onto London Street . Future Babies is the 3rd
shop on the right and there is ample parking on London Street.
Back to top
Directions from the A4 (J12 M4)
Come off the M4 motorway at junction 12
onto the A4 towards Reading .
Pass the Reg Vardy Ford garage on your
right.
Continue along the A4 following signs
for the Oracle.
Go over the railway bridge and continue
straight along the A4. Do not leave the A4.
At the roundabout with Thames Valley Police
station take the 3rd exit onto the M4 East / A329 sign posted
The Oracle shopping centre.
Stay in the left hand lane and continue
to the Oracle roundabout.
To park in one of the Multi storey car
parks take the 2nd exit.
For the Oracle Car park, you will need
to be in the left hand lane and follow the signs.
For Queens Road car park, continue straight
for 500 metres and it is to the left.
Alternatively, you can take the 3rd exit
at the Oracle roundabout, sign posted Aldershot A327 and follow
the one way system onto London Street . Future Babies is the 3rd
shop on the right and there is ample parking on London Street
.
Directions by foot from the Oracle Car park
When you come out of
the car park you will see the river in front of you with shops
on either side.
Walk to your right
and continue to the edge of the shopping complex. You will pass
Pizza Hut, Nandos, and the Cinema, all on your right.
At the edge of the
shopping complex follow the pavement round the corner to the
right. You will then see 3 main roads in front of you.
Cross over all 3 of
the roads using the crossings to your right
You are now on London
Street and the Future Babies studio is the 3rd shop on the right.
Directions by foot from the Queens Road car park
As you
come out of the car park you will see the main road in front
of you.
Turn right
and walk to the end of the street. (about a minute walk)
At the
end of the road you will be able to see London Street on your
left. The Future Babies studio is the 3rd shop up on the right
hand side of the street.
Use the
crossings to your left and then cross over to the right side
of the road once on London street
Directions by foot from Reading Train Station
Future Babies is only a 10 minute
walk from the train station.
• Leave the train station via the
side entrance. This is to the right of Marks and Spencers.
• Cross over the road and walk down
Blagrave Street
• Bear left and pass the Town Hall
on your left. Cross over to walk past the Post Office and continue
down High Street.
• At the bottom of High Street you
need to cross over onto Duke Street
