Chauffeur Driven Wedding Car Hire Service | Cars for Stars
Cars for Stars News
Chauffuer and Executive Travel News..
HomeAbout UsEditorial StaffContact Us
George Clooney reveals his past life as a chauffeurActor George Clooney revealed his past life as a celebrity chauffeur this week during an interview on the Oscar’s red carpet. The 50-year-old star admitted that before he hit the big time in Hollywood, like many struggling actors he had a number jobs to pay the bills, one of which as a chauffeur where he…
[Continue Reading]
You are here: Home / Archives for Chauffeur driven wedding car hire service
Rolls Royce Phantom iPhone app revealed
April 28, 2011
By Andrew Lloyd Leave a Comment
The exclusive Rolls Royce Phantom iPhone app has been officially revealed. The application is available to download onto a number of Apple devices including the iPhone, iPad, iPod touch and allows users to create their own bespoke Rolls Royce Phantom.
Almost every Rolls Royce Phantom buyer opts to have their vehicle personalised in some way. With the new app, you can have fun creating your own bespoke Phantom tailoring everything from the exterior colour to the trim piping to suit your specific preferences.
The application even has a colour match feature which allows the user to take a snap of their favourite colour using the built in camera, and the app will colour match that shade to be used in the bespoke Phantom.
Another fun feature of the Rolls Royce iPhone app is the image gallery which displays a range of special feature which can be used in the creation of your virtual Rolls Royce Phantom. Users can add extras such as veneer inserts, picnic sets, starlight headliners, and seat piping to their interior trim as part of the image gallery feature.
The app also offers iPhone users the chance to view their configured Phantom with 360 degree exterior angles so they can fully appreciate their personalised Rolls Royce limo.
Download the Rolls Royce Phantom app now and start creating your own bespoke luxury limousine.
Filed Under: All News, Limousine News, Uncategorized and off topic Tagged With: Chauffeur driven wedding car hire service, create your own bespoke Rolls Royce Phantom with new application, hire a Rolls Royce, rolls, Rolls Royce Bespoke Program, Rolls Royce Chauffeur cars, Rolls Royce Phantom, Rolls Royce Phantom Iphone app
Cars for Stars are seeking classic wedding car hire operators to join its network
February 8, 2011
By Andrew Lloyd Leave a Comment
Cars for Stars are seeking classic wedding car hire operators to join their successful national network of luxury transport providers. If you’re looking for a way to enhance your company’s business potential, joining forces with Cars for Stars will provide you with just the boost you need.
The vintage wedding car hire market is thriving right now with the vast majority of current Cars for Stars classic car hire agents already fully booked for peak wedding dates throughout 2001. For this reason, the luxury transport specialist is looking to recruit a number of new agents onto their books in order to cope with the high number of enquiries the company is currently receiving for classic wedding car hire.
Whether you are a long standing wedding car hire firm with a fleet of 20 cars and limousines, or a self-employed chauffeur with just one vintage Daimler limo, or if you’ve just set up a brand new company specialising in vintage wedding car hire, Cars for Stars wants to hear from you.
When you become an approved agent with Cars for Stars, you only pay commission for the work you receive via the company and nothing else. So for example, if one month you don’t get a single booking from Cars for Stars, you pay nothing in agency fees, so there’s really nothing to lose and a lot to gain from becoming an approved operator with this fast growing company.
Cars for Stars boasts a high web presence with a number of micro sites related to local areas throughout the UK, plus the company’s two main websites and a highly successful news website.
Last month Cars for Stars celebrate the debut of their first ever video viral showcasing limo hire for school proms, something which the firm is planning to build on with new professionally shot viral videos to advertise weddings cars amongst other things.
Cars for Stars operates throughout the UK so wherever you’re based whether it’s London or Glasgow, Cardiff or Gloucester, Liverpool or Birmingham, North Wales or Staffordshire, Bradford or Newcastle, Cars for Stars has an exciting business proposition for you.
For more information on the business opportunities available for vintage wedding car hire providers with Cars for Stars, get in touch today and we’ll be happy to discuss the matter further.
Filed Under: All News, Business Opportunities, Car Rental News, Chauffeur News, Hiring for an event, Limousine News Tagged With: Bentley wedding car, Business opportunities for vintage wedding car hire companies with Cars for Stars, Cars for Stars recruiting classic car hire companies, chauffeur driven car hire for weddings, Chauffeur driven wedding car hire service, cheap wedding car hire, classic wedding car hire, sports car hire for weddings, vintage wedding car hire, wedding car hire
Cliff Richard turns Bentley chauffeur for niece’s wedding
June 29, 2010
By Andrew Lloyd Leave a Comment
Sir Cliff Richard played the role of chauffeur over the weekend when he drove his niece to her wedding in Norwich in the back of his luxury Bentley.
The 69-year-old ensured the bride, Rachael Harrison, got to the church on time by getting behind the wheel of the maroon coloured Bentley himself and personally chauffeuring her to the ceremony.
The blushing bride is related to the singer through her mother, Jacqui Harrison, who is Cliff’s sister. Despite having a world famous performer in the family, Cliff didn’t sing during the wedding service or the reception.
Cliff, who boasts a massive 27 million single sale in the UK alone, dressed up especially for the occasion in a purple tinted suit and shoes to match the Maroon wedding car, and completed the look with a bight fuchsia flower in his button hole.
According to reports, Sir Cliff kept a low profile throughout the day, not wanting to detract for his niece’s special day. However the long-standing star was more than happy to pose for photographs with wedding guests, and for the official wedding snaps from the day.
Rachel married Liam Roberts at Kingdom Hall of Jehovah’s Witnesses in Norwich. After the ceremony the newlyweds were chauffeured by Sir Cliff
