Fields Institute - Dynamical Systems Seminar
Home
About Us
People & Contacts
Programs & Activities
Thematic & Focus Programs
General Scientific Activity
Commercial & Industrial Programs
Centre for Mathematical Medicine
Mathematics Education
Outreach
Calendar of Events
Mailing List
Audio & Slides
Proposals & Applications
Honours, Prizes & Fellowships
Publications
Resources and Facilities
Search
THEMATIC PROGRAMS
March  1, 2012
Fall 2005
Renormalization and Universality in Mathematics and Mathematical Physics
Spring 2006
Holomorphic Dynamics, Laminations, and Hyperbolic Geometry
Dynamical Systems Seminar
Mondays, 3:10 p.m. Room 230
Audio of talks available here.
May 31, 1:30 p.m.
** (Note special time)
Hui Guo (Fields Institute)
Integrable Teichmuller spaces
We introduce a new kind of subspaces of the universal
Teichmuller space. Some characterizations of them are given in terms
of univalent functions, Beltrami coefficients and quasisymmetric
homeomorphisms of the boundary of the unit disc.
May 1
Mitsuhiro Shishikura (Kyoto University
and Fields Institute)
Teichmuller contraction and renormalization
According to Royden-Gardiner theorem, any holomorphic
mapping between Teichmuller spaces does not expand the Teichmuller
distance. (Just like Schwarz-Pick theorem says that any holomorphic
mapping between hyperbolic Riemann surfaces does not expand the
Poincare metric.) In the theory of renormalizations, one often wants
to show that the renormalization map (which is defined in a transcendental
way) on the space of certain dynamical systems is hyperbolic or
contracting.
Therefore Royden-Gardiner theorem is an obvious
candidate of tools to obtain the contraction. This idea was first
used by Sullivan in his work on generalized Feigenbaum type renormalization.
In this talk, we will discuss two applications of Teichmuller
theory to renormalizations:
1. Parabolic renormalization for parabolic fixed
points and their perturbations. 2. Rigidity of real quadratic
polynomials only using Yoccoz's combinatorial a priori bounds.
For these cases, we deal with the Teichmuller
spaces of a disk or a punctured disk and show that a certain inclusion
map induces a contraction in Teichmuller distance.
Apr. 17
Jeremy Kahn (SUNY Stony Brook / Fields Institute)
The complex a priori bounds, continued
We describe how to reduce the a priori bounds for
bounded-primitive type renormalization to a simple combinatorial
statement regarding the combinatorial dynamics of arcs. We show
how the combinatorial statement follows from the expanding dynamics
on the Hubbard tree.
Apr. 10
Mary Rees (Liverpool)
A fundamental domain for V_{3}.
Abstract: We consider the space V_{n} of quadratic
rational maps with one named critical point of period n, quotiented
by M\"obius conjugacy preserving named critical points. Thus,
the space V_{1} is the space of all quadratic polynomials up to
affine conjugacy. The parameter space V_{1} must be one of the most
studied in all dynamics. But V_{1} differs from most other parameter
spaces in an important respect: there is a natural ``base map''
and, within the Mandelbrot set, natural paths, up to a natural homotopy,
to any other map in the Mandelbrot set. The simplest parameter space
for which this fails to be true is V_{3}.
One can say (truthfully) that there is no canonical
choice of fundamental domain for V_{3,m}, which is obtained from
V_{3} by removing a natural dynamically defined puncture set.
I shall exhibit a fundamental domain, using the dynamical planes
of three maps within V_{3} and a theory known as the ``Resident's
View''. This enables one to at least formulate an analogue of
MLC for this family.
Three parts of the fundamental domain are straightforward
(although the proof in one of these cases is probably new). The
structure of the fourth part is much more interesting, involving
a spiral in the dynamical plane of the so-called ``aeroplane''
quadratic polynomial z\mapsto z^{2}+c for the (unique) real parameter
c for which the critical point 0 has period 3.
Apr. 3
Matilde Martinez (Fields Institute)
Measures on hyperbolic surface laminations
We will consider laminations by hyperbolic Riemann
surfaces, and different
measures that can be associated with these objects (holonomy-invariant
measures, harmonic measures, measures invariant under the geodesic
and
horocycle flows). We will state some results that show how these
measures
are related. We will mainly focus on two families of examples: Riccati
foliations and Hilbert modular foliations.
Mar. 20
Peter Makienko
Remarks on Ruelle Operator, Invariant Differentials and invariant
line fields problem.
Abstract: TBA
Mar. 13th
**12PM (Note special time**)
Special Brown Bag Lunch Dynamical Systems
Seminar
Dierk Schleicher (IU Bremen), Johannes Rueckert (IU
Bremen), Magnus Aspenberg (Fields), and Vladim Timorin
(Stony Brook) + anyone who wants to can give input.
Combinatorics of Rational maps
Mar. 6
Roland Roeder (Fields)
Newton's Method in two complex variables: Indeterminant points
and the topology of basins of attraction
The equations x(x-1)=0, y^2+Bxy-y=0 are easy
to solve, but the Newton Map
N: C^2 \rightarrow C^2 for finding the four roots has very complicated
dynamics: N is four-to-one and N has points of indeterminacy.
Furthermore, high iterates of N have many points of indeterminacy.
By restricting to parameters |1-B|>1, all of these points of
indeterminacy are in the set X_l = Re(x) < 1/2, which is invariant
under N. If one wants to consider the homotopy type of a basin
of attraction, W(r_i), for one of the roots r_i \in X_l under
N, one encounters a kind of ``topological indeterminacy.'' When
studying the homotopy type of a loop \gamma in W(r_i), should
one consider the homotopies that hit the points of indeterminacy
of N^k or should one avoid them? Both seem reasonable. To avoid
such questions, one can perform blow-ups at the points of indeterminacy
of all iterates of N, obtaining a new space X_l^\infty from X_l
on which all iterates of N are defined.
We show how to make precise the notion of linking
numbers in X_l^\infty, overcoming a different kind of indeterminacy
that is a result of the fact that H_2(X_l^\infty) is infinitely
generated. Having developed this technology, I will explain how
we can use it to study the homotopy type of the basins of attraction
W(r_i) within X_l^\infty.
Feb. 27
Robert Devaney (Boston University)
Rings around the McMullen Domain
Feb. 13
Andrzej Bis (University of Illinois
at Chicago)
Dynamics of foliated spaces in codimension greater than one
Abstract. Dynamics of foliated spaces can be characterized
by the exceptional minimal sets and topological entropy. Dynamical
theory of codimension one foliations was developed by Hector, Cantwell
and Conlon, and others. We present some results on exceptional minimal
sets, which are analogous to the attractors in a standard dynamical
system, of foliated spaces in codimension greater than one.
Feb. 6
Yoel Feler (Fields Institute)
Holomorphic endomorphisms of configuration spaces
Abstract: The most traditional configuration space
C(X,n) of a complex space X consists of all n point subsets ("configurations")
Q in X.
If X carries an additional geometric structure, it may be taken
into account; say if X=CP^m or C^m, the space C(X,n;gp) of geometrically
generic configurations consists of all n point configurations Q
such that no hyperplane in X contains more than m points of Q. An
automorphism T of X (preserving an additional geometric structure,
whenever it is relevant) produces a holomorphic endomorphism f of
the configuration space via f(Q)=TQ. If the automorphism group Aut
X is a complex Lie group, one may take T=T(Q) depending analytically
on a configuration Q and define the corresponding holomorphic endomorphism
f by f(Q)=T(Q)Q. Such a map f is called tame. In the talk, we shall
see that for every non-hyperbolic Riemann surface X all "non-degenerate"
holomorphic endomorphisms of configuration spaces C(X,n) are tame.
To some extent, this is true also for spaces of geometrically generic
configurations.
Jan. 30
Tomoki Kawahira (Fields Institute)
Tessellation and Lyubich-Minsky laminations associated with quadratic
maps
Abstract: In 1990s, M.Lyubich and Y.Minsky introduced
the hyperbolic 3-laminations associated with rational maps as an
analogue of the hyperbolic 3-manifolds associated with Kleinian
groups. In this talk I will present a new method to describe topological
and combinatorial changes of laminations associated with hyperbolic-to-parabolic
degeneration of quadratic maps.
The method is based on tessellation of filled Julia sets, which
gives a nice organization of the dynamics inside the filled Julia
set like
external rays outside.
Jan. 23
Dierk Schleicher (International
University Bremen)
Dynamics of transcendental entire functions from the point of
view of polynomials
Abstract: In this talk, we will discuss some fundamentals
of iterated entire functions and indicate why and how they differ
from polynomial dynamics, with a special focus on the simplest representatives
in both cases, and a view towards generalization.
Jan. 16
Dmitrii V. Anosov (Steklov Mathematical
Institute)
A lemma about families of epsilon pseudo-trajectories revisited
In hyperbolic dynamics there are results related
to the existence of a true trajectory near an epsilon pseudo-trajectory
for sufficiently small epsilon (although, formally, some of these
results are expressed rather differently.) Many years ago I found
a lemma which covers most of these questions. The proof is rather
involved and some famous mathematicians expressed complaints about
the difficulty. In this talk, I will present a simplified version
of the proof.
Dec. 5
Viviane Baladi (Institut Mathematiques
de Jussieu)
Anisotropic spaces of distributions and dynamical zeta functions
Abstract: (Joint work with M. Tsujii) The Ruelle
transfer operator is a powerful tool in ergodic theory, which involves
composition with the dynamics. Many relevant dynamical systems are
hyperbolic, i.e. they involve contracting and expanding directions.
Composition with a contraction
improves regularity - but composing with an expanding map "worsens"
regularity: It has been an open problem for many years to find a
space
of distributions on which composition by a hyperbolic diffeomorphism
(of finite smoothness) can be well understood. Last year we constructed
such a space and estimated the essential spectral radius of the
transfer operator on this space. After recalling this result, we
shall describe more recent progress including spectral interpretation
of zeroes of dynamical determinants.
Nov. 28
Kristian Bjerklov (University
of Toronto)
The dynamics of the quasi-periodic Schroedinger cocycle at the
lowest energy of the spectrum
Abstract: We will study properties of the quasi-periodic
Schroedinger equation at the lowest energy of the spectrum. This
will lead us into the study of phase transitions. Moreover, we will
answer a question by M. Herman concerning the geometry of a certain
minimal set - a non-chaotic strange atractor - of the projective
Schroedinger cocycle. We study the case of large coupling constant
and Diophantine frequency.
Nov. 25, 1:10 p.m.
**Note: special day and time
Mitchell Feigenbaum (The Rockefeller
University)
Exponents in period doubling
Nov. 24, 1:10 p.m.
**Note: special day and time
Yulij Ilyashenko (Cornell University)
Topological properties of polynomial and analytic foliations
Abstract: Geometrical study of holomorphic foliations
of the complex plane, both projective and affine, lies on the boundary
of differential equations, topology and complex analysis. Foliations
of \Bbb CP^2 have an algebraic origin: they are defined by polynomial
vector fields, but their behavior is highly transcendental. Their
properties are drastically different from those of real polynomial
vector fields. Properties of density of leaves, absolute rigidity
and existence of a countable number of limit cycles were discovered
by different authors in 60s and 70s. The talk will present these
results together with a survey of the further development and open
problems.
Foliations of \Bbb C^2 have an analytic origin: they are defined
by analytic vector fields. Generic properties of these fields were
studied very recently. Yet genericity of density of leaves and existence
of the infinite number of complex limit cycles is recently proved.
Moreover, generic leaves of such foliations are either disks, or
cylinders. These results are obtained by graduate students Firsova,
Kutuzova and Volk.
Nov. 21
Konstantin Khanin (University of
Toronto)
Minimizers for random Lagrangian systems
Abstract: We shall discuss random Aubry-Mather theory
and prove that for time-dependent random Lagrangian systems on compact
manifolds there exists a unique global minimizer. In the one-dimensional
case we show that the global minimizer corresponds to a hyperbolic
invariant measure for the random Lagrangian flow. We also discuss
dynamical properties of shocks and show that their global structure
is quite rigid and reflects the topology of the configuration manifold.
Nov. 14
** talk at 4:10 p.m.
Israel Sigal (University of Toronto).
Spectral Renormalization Group and Theory of Radiation
Abstract: Non-relativistic quantum electrodynamics
describes interaction of charged particles (electrons and nuclei)
with quantized electro-magnetic field (photons). The key problem
here is to describe emission and absorption of radiation by systems
of matter such as atoms and molecules. In this talk I will present
some recent rigorous results on the problem of radiation and describe
a novel renormalization group technique used in proving these results.
I will not assume any prior knowledge of quantum field theory or
quantum mechanics.
Nov. 7
Marco Martens (University of Groeningen)
Henon renormalization (I)
Abstract: This mini-course will introduce a renormalization
operator for dissipative Henon-like maps. The fixed point of the
one-dimensional renormalization operator will also be a hyperbolic
fixed point of the Henon-renormalization operator. This corresponds
to universal geometrical properties of the Cantor attractor of infinitely
renormalizable Henon-like maps. However, the two-dimensional theory
is richer than the unimodal case. In particular, the Cantor attractor
is not rigid, does not lie on a smooth curve and generically does
not have bounded geometry. The quantitative aspects of these phenomena
are controlled by the average Jacobian.
The global topological properties of finitely renormalizable Henon-like
maps in phase and parameter space are also controlled by the average
Jacobian. In particular, density of hyperbolicity will be discussed
in a neighborhood of the infinitely renormalizable maps.
Oct. 31
Hans Koch (University of Texas,
Austin)
Renormalization of vector fields (I)
Abstract: This mini-course covers some of the recent
developments in the renormalization of flows - mainly Hamiltonian
flows and skew flows. After stating some of the problems and describing
alternative approaches, we focus on the definition and basic properties
of a single renormalization step. A second part deals with the construction
of conjugacies and invariant tori, including shearless tori, and
non-differentiable tori for critical Hamiltonians. Then we discuss
properties related to the spectrum of the linearized renormalization
transformation, such as the accumulation rates for sequences of
closed orbits. The last part describes extensions from "simple"
to Diophantine rotation vectors. This involves sequences of renormalization
transformations that are related to continued fractions expansions
in one and more dimensions. Whenever appropriate, the discussion
of details will be restricted to special cases where inessential
technical complications can be avoided.
Oct. 24
Michael Shub (U Toronto)
Lower bounds for the entropy in several families of dynamical
systems
Abstract: Using soft techniques we prove lower bounds
for the maximum entropy of a system in a family in terms of the
entropy of a random product of the systems in the family. We accomplish
this for two families of immersions of the circle. For one family
this is joint work with Leonel Robert and Enrique Pujals and the
other Rafael de la Llave and Carles Simo. Time permitting we recall
a two dimensional analog whose entropy properties are still unknown,
but for which partial
results have been achieved in joint work with Francois Ledrappier,
Carles Simo and Amie Wilkinson.
Oct. 17
Robert MacKay (University of Warwick, UK)
Some robustly mixing fluid flows
Abstract: I suggest an example of a C^3 divergence-free
vector field in a domain of R^3 with smooth boundary, vanishing
on the boundary, which is mixing and remains so for all small
perturbations in this class. Two other candidates are also presented.
Oct. 10
Thankgiving holiday
Oct. 3
Charles Pugh (UC Berkeley)
Smoothing Topological Manifolds
Abstract: The Cairns-Whitehead Smoothing Theorem
is proved by dynamical systems methods, namely the Invariant Section
Theorem.
Sept. 26
Roland Roeder (Fields Institute)
Super-stable manifolds for Newton's methods in two complex
variables
Abstract: While the equations x(x-1)=0, y^2+Bxy-y=0
are easy to solve, the dynamics of the Newton map N(x,y) for finding
the four roots is quite complicated. In particular, N is many-to-one
and N has points of indeterminacy.
The two vertical lines x=0 and x=1 are invariant under N and super-attracting.
Within these lines the ''circles'' Re(y) = 1/2 and Re(y) = (1-B)/2,
respectively, are hyperbolically repelling with multiplier 2.
In this talk we will prove that these circles have superstable
manifolds of real dimension 3 using the technique of holomorphic
motions. These manifolds extend to all points with Re(x) <
1/2 and Re(x) > 1/2 respectively and provide insight into the
topology of the basins of attraction for the four roots.
This work follows the ideas of John H. Hubbard and Sebastien Krief.
Sep. 19
M. Shishikura, Kyoto University
Renormalization for irrationally indifferent fixed points of
holomorphic maps
Abstract: Indifferent fixed points of holomorphic
maps give rise to delicate problems such as linearization problems,
discontinuous Julia sets etc. In this talk, we review the study
of those phenomena from the renormalization point of view. We
define a certain class of holomorphic maps with "non-degenerate"
parabolic fixed points. The parabolic renormalizaion is defined
for this class and shown to leave the class invariant. Then the
class is still invariant under a small perturbation, therefore
we can handle irrationally indifferent fixed points with large
continued fraction coefficients. This is a joint work with Hiroyuki
Inou.
We will compare this approach with Yoccoz's and McMullen's renormalizations.
We will also mention possible applications such as Buff-Cheritat's
work toward positive measure Julia
