X-Runtime: 1061
Content-Length: 83772
Cache-Control: private, max-age=0, must-revalidate
Via: 1.0 sbnation.com
Vary: Accept-Encoding
Connection: close
SEC Media Days: SB Nation Roundup Regarding Mark Richt, A.J. Green, and the Georgia Bulldogs - Dawg Sports
Navigation: Jump to content areas:
Network Bar & Login
Section Navigation
Main Blog Content
Secondary Sidebar: Links to Recent Stories, FanPosts and FanShots
Masthead
Network Bar
SB Nation
Pro Quality. Fan Perspective.
Log In
Screen Name
Password
Remember
Forgot Password?
Sign in with Yahoo! ID
Sign in with Facebook
Use OpenID
OpenID
Remember
Don't Have OpenID?
Sign Up
Around SBN: Frankie Edgar Guaranteed Automatic Title Shot
Dawg Sports - Georgia Bulldogs. Gators eat boogers.
Home
FanPosts
FanShots
Archives
Bulldogs
Schedule
Roster
Stats
Tickets
VideoOriginal programming. Exciting sports coverage. Check out the SB Nation YouTube channel!
SEC Media Days: SB Nation Roundup Regarding Mark Richt, AJ Green, and the Georgia Bulldogs
by T Kyle King on Jul 22, 2010 12:01 PM EDT
in Football
Tweet
3 comments
Email
Print
Mark Richt’s turn at the microphone at SEC Media Days featured no questions concerning agents, though it is open to debate whether this was due to "a voluntary hiatus," an "order" (with consequences for disobedience), or "a request on Georgia’s behalf to hold off on all questions regarding the NCAA’s investigation into AJ Green’s alleged presence at the agent-sponsored South Beach Party currently erasing half the games played in the 2009 college football season." (In the meantime, Dawg Sports has confirmed with a relative of AJ Green’s that the star receiver was attending a family function in the Palmetto State at the time.)
The summary of Coach Richt’s remarks authored by Spencer Hall (whose presence at the event I believe to be confirmed by this photograph, unless I miss my guess as to the identity of the bespectacled plaid-clad fellow with sideburns at the center) is linked to above, and C&F;’s live blog of the event is here. Coach Richt’s job security came up, though I have no idea why. For his part, AJ didn’t know how big this was.
Now, if you’ll excuse me, I’m about to go wolf down a Chick-fil-A spicy chicken sandwich, of the sort the hardworking reporters present in the greater metropolitan Birmingham area cruelly were denied yesterday.
Go ‘Dawgs!
Tweet
3 comments
|
0 recs  |
Do you like this story?
More from Dawg Sports
SB Nation Launches YouTube Channel
Feb 2012 by T Kyle King
- 16 comments
Thursday Morning Dawg Bites: Suck It Up, You Bunch of Crybabies! Edition
Feb 2012 by T Kyle King
- 41 comments
Artificial Turf and SEC Expansion: Why It's Time for the Missouri Tigers to Get Real
Feb 2012 by T Kyle King
- 67 comments
Tuesday Morning Dawg Bites: Bulldog Nation Brought Its Beads to Mardi Gras Edition
Feb 2012 by T Kyle King
- 4 comments
SEC Scheduling in the Expansion Era: How to Preserve Permanent Conference Rivalries and Protect Perennial Non-Conference Rivalries
Feb 2012 by T Kyle King
- 8 comments
Monday Morning Dawg Bites Salutes Greg McGarity and Gives Auburn's Coaching Move Two Thumbs Up!
Feb 2012 by T Kyle King
- 37 comments
Around SB Nation
2.11.12 College Hoops Saturday Open Thread
Feb 2012 from Anonymous Eagle
- 16 comments
2012 NFL Draft: Michael Floyd Expected Surprise At The Combine
Feb 2012 from Turf Show Times
- 17 comments
RPI WATCH: 2/11/12
Feb 2012 from Bring On The Cats
- 0 comments
RPI WATCH: 2/13/12
Feb 2012 from Bring On The Cats
- 3 comments
Cincinnati Bengals Should Look To The New Orleans Saints During Free Agency
Feb 2012 from Cincy Jungle
- 60 comments
Read More: mark richt, sec media days, sec, southeastern conference, team speed kills, spencer hall, orson swindle, chick-fil-a, spicy chicken sandwich, sec media days 2010, A.J. Green (FL - Georgia), Georgia Bulldogs
Sign in with your Yahoo! ID
Add Dawg Sports to My Yahoo!
Comments
Display:
Expanded
Collapsed
One would think
That if Green was in a whole different city, this would be a very brief investigation.
by Billy Gomila on
Jul 22, 2010 12:10 PM EDT
reply
actions
While you are enjoying your sandwich...
try to tune in a bit to Vandy’s Robbie Caldwell.
I don’t know if he can coach a lick, but he’s fun to listen to.
"If we score, we may win. If they never score, we'll never lose."
-Erk Russell
by DavetheDawg on
Jul 22, 2010 12:16 PM EDT
reply
actions
This made me smile.
"I have my circle, and I know who to trust and who not to trust," Green said. "I’m at the point of my life right now that I don’t need to make any new friends. I’ve got to keep that same circle I’ve had since Day 1 and not let anybody in that."How refreshing it is to read a statement like this from a college football player who just “gets it.”
AJ has conducted himself with class from the very beginning at Georgia.
We’ve never heard his name tossed around with any kind of arrest or behavior issue, and he’s done nothing but make us proud again.
His biggest faux-pas so far was his “celebration” against LSU last year, and we all know how that went.
If every player used this kind of common sense in who they let interact with them during their college career and leading up to the draft, there would be a lot fewer instances like SouthBeachOMGSOFUN-gate going on right now.
by hailtogeorgia on
Jul 22, 2010 1:30 PM EDT
reply
actions
Comments For This Post Are Closed
↑ Top of comments
↑ Top of page
↑ Stories
↑ Dawg Sports
↑ SB Nation
Secondary Sidebar
Search
User Tools
in association with
Welcome to the SB Nation community devoted to the Georgia Bulldogs.
Start posting about the Bulldogs
Dawg Sports on Facebook
Follow @dawgsports
Follow
Dawg Sports on your Android Device!
Subscribe to Dawg Sports Stories
Related FanPosts on Dawg Sports
Do not put the cart before the Tiger.
by DavetheDawg 4 months ago
17 comments
Georgia Bulldogs' 2012 Football Schedule Officially Revealed in 2011 Media Guide
by T Kyle King 8 months ago
8 comments
Chupa de cabra: Ten Reasons to be Pessimistic About the Georgia Bulldogs in 2011.
by vineyarddawg 8 months ago
35 comments
| 1 recs
"We're Not That Far Away"
by Anthony Pace about 1 year ago
26 comments
| 1 recs
Mailbag Time Again!: Answering More E-Mails From Auburn Fans
by T Kyle King about 1 year ago
19 comments
You're on notice, dawg!
Week 10
by vineyarddawg over 1 year ago
32 comments
| 1 recs
Related FanShots on Dawg Sports
At least at this point in time, a nine-game football schedule has little...
by T Kyle King
about 17 hours ago
4 comments
Greg McGarity Has Your Back
by T Kyle King
2 days ago
0 comments
Georgia's Mark Richt entered 2011 on one of the hottest seats in the...
by T Kyle King
about 1 month ago
2 comments
A Stray Thought Occurs:
by T Kyle King
2 months ago
5 comments
2012 #SEC football conference schedule will be released tomorrow (Wed.) at...
by T Kyle King
2 months ago
3 comments
It is all but official, based on talking to someone with knowledge of the...
by T Kyle King
2 months ago
24 comments
FanPosts
Community blog posts and discussion.
Recent FanPosts
Ole Saban Goes Down to Georgia
by Dawg2011 1 day ago
3 comments
Lady Dawgs' 2nd-half outburst too much for Ole Miss
