Blue's News MailBag
Mailbag
May 2,1999 -- Previous Mailbag
Letters are edited
for spelling errors only, and may contain profanity. Commentary by Jason "loonyboi"
Bergman.
Hey id...you suck!
From:
James Fitzgerald
Subject: Suggestion
So here's the deal.
You rag on Unreal's no
show as far as a release goes, and less than 12 hours later, they
put out a release.
Any chance you could
rag on id about Q3Test for the windows platform? :-)
-JamesF.
Don't say we didn't
try...
Just
chill, homies.
From:
Rob Ellner
Subject: Q3
Q3 on the Mac first,
eh? Heh.
I'm a PC owner looking
forward to Q3 as much as the next obsessive gaming nut. But it is
kinda funny ain't it. I nearly coughed up a lung when everyone started
trying to download the Mac emulator. That is pure comedy. Nothing
less.
People should chill out about this mac first deal. How can any PC
owner claim foul when the last game to come out on the Mac first
was Marathon. And welcome to it they were.
Didn't see the PC population
crying over that.
HackMesser
I laughed my head
off as well...I own
ARDI, and I found it very hard to believe that software that
emulates a 25 MHz 68040 could actually run software designed for
a G3. It does, however run Marathon really well. :)
Deep
thoughts.
From:
sikander iqbal
Subject: Q3A and Bill Gates
Okay, if Bill Gates had
a son who loved QUAKE as much as I do, would he let him go out and
buy a MAC just for playing the Q3Test ??
The
secret's out!
From:
Michiel Rutting
Subject: You sold out to Mac! We have proof now!
Hi,
Did you notice this in Graeme's .plan too? Hard proof has arrived!
--- Start Quote
When running in 32-bit color depth, lighting effects (such as from
a weapon firing) cause the affected textures to temporarily turn
to garbage.
(System: Blue tower G3)
--- End Quote
No use denying it now, you sold out :) And now your Mac gives you
errors! LOL!
Heh, this one is too good.
Greetz,
Nucleus
aka Michiel Rutting
Actually, that's somewhat
inaccurate. The "Blue" tower, is actually "bondi
blue".
On the
happy occasion...
From:
Randy Taylor
Subject: Congratulations!
Hi Blue! Congratulations
on your wedding anniversary. I was shocked that you havn't taken
a day off in three years. I just wanted to tell you how much I appreciate
your page. I have hit it almost every day for two years now. I have
one word of advice; try to take at least one day off a week. I am
in the military and take 30 days off a year. I think I would go
crazy if I didn't have that time. Thanks for keeping up one of the
best gaming sights on the net, and don't forget to take care of
yourself!
-Randy Taylor
B-1B Crew Chief USAF
Carmack
does what?
From:
John Nevaquaya
Subject: re: Whose bitch?
Well, I guess if we had
to be someone's bitch, it would have to be Carmack's instead of
Romero's - at least Carmack puts out.
Andrew
Smith strikes again...
From:
Mr. Fix It
Subject: Andrew Smith can suck my boomstick
As you may have already
guessed, this E-mail is a response to the pile of bull shit Andrew
Smith sent in last week. Andrew Smith is a complete idiot!! Hey
Andrew, if you have to put "I have no evidence to prove this,
but it's true, and anyone who denies it is wrong." after everything
you say, then what your saying is most likely false or an opinion.
Keep your god damned misinformation to your dumbfuck self!
For the record:
1. I play violent computer
games, which I know for a _FACT_ have not made me violent.
2. I watch violent films,
which I know for a _FACT_ have not made me violent.
3. I have access to information
about making bombs, which I know for a _FACT_ has not made me want
to blow things up. I already wanted to blow things up before I had
access to that crap.
4. I am in high school
where I have not killed any of my classmates because I play violent
video games and watch violent movies. (or for any other reason,
for that mater.)
Some people may think
that these _FACTS_ make me biased. Perhaps I am, but that doesn't
make that Andrew Smith any smarter. People like him make me want
to kill someone :-). But seriously, they drive me insane! Those
irritating right-wing religious crackpots, moronic Republicans,
and other idiots are always pushing shit like this at us. If you
are a member of one of the aforementioned groups and you disagree
with me, suck my boomstick!!!!
I'm sick and tired of
flipping on the ol' boob toob and hearing video games, TV, and movies
getting blamed for things like the tradgedy in Littleton. Jesus Christ people!!! I know this has been said before, but it was an
excellent point: THE MEDIA IS NOT HERE TO BABYSIT THE YOUTH OF AMERICA!!!!!!!!!
If you look at all of these absolutely horrible tradgedies, you
will most likely see that the parents of killers either raised there
kids in a terrible environment or they were hardly ever around.
How the hell does a kid make multiple bombs without his parents
noticing? His parents not paying any attention to anything he does,
that's how!!! Parents are here to police their kids before they
are able to police themselves. They sure make sure that their son
or daughter understands that violence hurts and that what happens
in most movies and video games isn't real. More and more of these
tragedies will occur until the parents of America start doing their
job: to raise there children up sane and with a healthy sense of
reality. Man stuff like this pisses me off. Well, back to my homework
. . .
-Mr. Fix It
PS Feel free to edit
the swearing in my letter. I really want my feelings on this heard.
Thanks.
From:
Troy ><> Fisher
Subject: Re: Andrew Smith: school shootings
Your unsubstantiated
comments provide a very good point.
However, the substantiation that games do not cause violence comes
from doing some homework on the following:
How many copies of first-person shooters have been sold, starting
with Wolf3D and going all the way up to Starseige or whatever is
the latest.
Now figure out how many of the owners of these copies went on to
shoot kids in their school (or elsewhere).
I think you'll find a large discrepancy if you can even come up
with the numbers.
QED
More
on Mac emulation...
From:
Burt H.
Subject: Q3Test and Mac Emulation
Regarding and quoting
from BluesNews...
An incorrect rumor on the net listed Executor as running Q3Test,
the test-version of Quake 3 that was made available for the Macintosh
before Linux and Windows. Our site has been swamped as people try
to download our demo to test this. Q3Test requires a PowerPC, and
Executor does not currently run any Mac applications that require
a PowerPC.
I have to say, I'm not better than the next guy on this planet,
but there are a few things I see, most of the time, from a more
distant perspective. I'm certainly not going to do Carmack and injustice
and compare him to Mr. Gate$, but have you noticed something amazing?
Bill Gates has people flocking to OS's, Apps, and many other things,
normally because it's 'easier', or someone doesn't know they have
a choice. John Carmack on the other hand is so powerful that he
can cause half of the internet community (those that that don't
have MacOS) to flock to something they typically badmouth, just
to try out his software.:)
You go boy!!
*grin*
LugNut
PS I think he should do donuts on Gate's lawn with that Sports
car ;>)
They're
all gonna laugh at you!
From:
dino bigliazzi
Subject: Prey? <hee hee>
Is it just me, or does
anyone else out there giggle uncontrollably everytime they hear
Prey mentioned. Let's try it...
"Prey"
<hee hee>
Comments, abusive email, movie deals, etc. are welcome.
jazz.bone@mailcity.com
I got
yer legislation right here...
From:
Jason Rushton
Subject: Major Minor Legislation
Non-Gamers just don't
understand games. Especially, I have to say, older people (ie congressmen,
reporters). So they think by not letting people under 18 buy games
they'll solve the worlds problems. But what about demos? What about
the ever-present warez copies? What about the store clerks that
don't give a damn? Is it going to be like buying cigarettes, or
alcohol? If you under 26 you have to have an id, can't sell it within
1000 yards of a school or church? If a parent buys it for thier
kid...is that contributing to the delinquency of a minor?
Maybe a better idea would be to not let anyone under 18 watch the
news! I've been a game since the DOOM days....and the images that
show up on the news everyday still make me sick, shock me, and otherwise
"gross me out".
People just don't understand...I
think it was a quote on Blue's, or Loony's, but it said something
to the effect of most gamers are too afraid to even go outside let
alone open fire on a crowd of people. And that B.S. about them losing
touch with reality.....didn't know they weren't playing a game.
Every game out there has a teamplay mode where you aren't supposed
to kill teammates... aren't all humans essentially teammates at
the very least.
Well, that's enough of
my late night ranting....if it sounds weird that's cuz it's 5 in
the morning....But I'm sick and tired of people blaming everyone
else for everything they do wrong.
No one will accept the
blame anymore. If they really have to blame someone else for what
kids are doing wrong then blame the parents, blame the education
system, blame the pressures of society....just leave us gamers to
our vegetating.
Jason "FoOeY" Rushton
You make a good point...most
hard-core gamers are serious agoraphobiacs. The concept of sunlight
scares them more than anything. :)
Still
more on the Colorado incident...
From:
James Hendrick
Subject: The Doomworld editorial
Dear Mailbag,
I'm not going to spend much in time or length at this, because nobody
ever reads the long letters, and besides Frasier comes on in twenty
minutes. But I've got to say something, to make some opposition,
because the integrity of the gaming community is being defended
by a prominent editorial that would better have served us had it
never been written at all.
The editorial, by Dukrous
of Doomworld.com, was made reference to by an article on CNN, as
reported on Blue's today (the 28th). Suffice it to say that this
editorial has not gone unnoticed. I was personally very curious
to see what Doomworld had to say about the Columbine shootings,
since the Doom community is under very close scrutiny right now
for reasons that don't need to be reviewed. So I read this editorial
and was severely disappointed.
Instead of an intelligent,
mature, receptive response, the author has published a quasi-intellectual
treatise that attempts to guild youthful conviction and self-importance
in what was probably intended to be an impressive display of philosophical
rigor and noble uprightness. It fails. Debunking his reasoning is
busy work, labor not worth its me. What disappoints me so greatly
in this editorial are not its oversights, gross generalizations,
leaps of logic, and innumerable contradictions, but its outright
ignorance: the absence of consideration in the author's commanding
tone, the sense of smug triumph that he conveys with every ludicrous
conclusion. He would be at fault for this regardless of the merit
of his ideas. And he is definitely to be faulted for making the
horror at Columbine into a platform on which to parade his intellect
and character.
"Peace cannot be kept by force. It can only be achieved by
understanding." What is needed is not increased regulation,
vigilance, and inquisition. These are short-sighted answers. What
we are lacking is understanding.
Sincerely,
James Hendrick
also an avid gamer, aka Mr. White and Mr. Wizard
From:
Robert J. Denchy
Subject: Shootings and "experts" with no clue
Blue / Loonyboi,
I happened to turn on the TV last night and catch a part of an interview
last night. I think it was on 20/20. I only watched about two minutes
of it before I turned off the TV.
They had some military "expert" talking about the shooting
of the kids as they were coming out of a bible study. (Not the most
recent shooting.) He was explaining how it was obvious that the
games the kid played gave him the skills to kill his classmates.
This expert obviously looked for ways to prove his points rather
than looking at the situation objectively. Otherwise, he would have
seen that his points actually prove the game did NOT provide the
"skills" used.
His Point: It was amazing that the kid scored 5 out of 8 shots.
This shows an incredible aptitude above that of experts that are
trained to shoot. For example, in a recent shooting, four trained
policemen were in a shoot-out and only 19 of 43 shots were good.
Although there were multiple people in the classroom it was a large
room.
My Point: Apples and Oranges. It's too bad that most people will
take this at face value. Shooting at unarmed people that are not
hiding under behind cover is a completely different situation than
when someone is shooting back at you. Shooting at one or two people
is not the same as shooting at 40 people. I don't care how big the
room was, the kids were grouped together in a contained area. And
shooting at one person still meant that others were likely to be
hit if the shot missed the intended target. The expert may argue
this but then he is probably the type of fool that would try to
take out an armed terrorist surrounded by 30 hostages. In the real
world the good guys won't shoot because the chance of hitting someone
other than the person they are aiming at is too high.
His Point: He shot once at each target which is the way the games
teach people to shoot. Shoot one target and quickly move on to the
next. This goes against what a trained person would do; trained
people shoot until the target goes down.
My Point: The kid was not trained! He did exactly what makes sense
for someone attempting to create as much damage to as many people
as possible. He didn't care if he killed his target or not. People
that are trained are trained to take out their target who is a danger
to them. These "targets" were NOT a threat. Finally, one
of the most common death match rules is to STAY ON TARGET. Why?
Because, your targets are threats to you. If you divide your fire
between multiple targets you are likely to kill none of them. This
in turn means there is more fire being directed at you. Further
more, for all we know, he WAS shooting at the same target. He could
have missed with ever shot and only managed to hit the people around
his intended target(s).
His Point: He shot at the head because the games award head shots.
My Point: Gee, which game is that? Some games award more points
or more damage for head shots but not games like Doom, Quake, Quake II, etc. In fact, it is only the most recent crop of games that
award points for head shots. In general, the games actually teach
the same thing that a defense course would teach, shoot at the point
where you are most likely to hit...center of mass.
Anyway, the point is that this "expert" is nothing of
the sort. He has made poor arguments that, when looked at logically,
actually prove that the games did not train this kid... He has made
assumption and taken them as facts and then tried to make the circumstances
match those "facts".
This kid acted contrary to the best tactics for FPS games. This
kid did what makes sense for someone who is looking to harm as many
people as possible.
As a side note, the government and people with no clue are once
again trying to use these shootings as a way to increase gun control.
Why do we need more gun control when the current laws are not being
enforced. After all, it is illegal for a minor (under 18) to purchase
a weapon. It is illegal for anyone under 21 to purchase a handgun.
It is illegal to have guns on school property (Believe the law states
something like guns are not allowed within 500 yards of a school).
-Palandar.
rjdenchy@flash.net
From:
Alex Brown
Subject: Jocks vs Geeks?
Dear Blue's News,
I know that a lot of folks
who write in to you are termed "geeks" and they all seem
to express a deep resentment of their more "popular" peers.
I want to let everyone know that there are other shades of grey.
In high school I was a Jock. However I wasnt the greatest one in
the world. Guess what else I did? Surf the Internet, play games
like Doom, and yes, I did well in school. So what we have here is
someone - mainly myself, who was a geek and a jock hybrid. I was
more popular than people who were just normal kids who didnt belong
to clubs, yet I was not as popular as some of the more exceptional
athletes and their click. I am aghast to see that there are so many
people who are on the far ends of the spectrum.
Is that the reality?
Or is that the only group who is being allowed to have their voices
heard because of the resentment of the "popular" in the
computer community? Is there no middle ground? Are any of these
opposing sides taking steps to understand each other? I believe
that there needs to be more effort between people to understand
each other. It seems like we have a social "race war"
going on, and just like society needed/needs to come to terms with
ethnic and race differences, we need to come to terms with social
ones.
I agree completely
with you, but there's a problem here...you and I are both out of
high school. When I was in high school (shudder) I thought of things
in those same strange terms...there were "jocks" and "geeks"
and well, then there was me. :)
My point is this:
we can talk rationally about this now because it's behind us. But
for kids who are still in high school, it's a different story entirely.
And it's not something easily solved, either.
Now
here's some logic I agree with...
From:
Jim Beasley
Subject: Whats really behind the Littleton Tragedy...
I'm sick of hearing that
computer games were somehow responsible for the terrible tragedy
in Littleton
