Vary: Cookie
Set-Cookie: csrftoken=9c6f725a11a43931d06b87b4711394df; Max-Age=31449600; Path=/
X-Backend: www.cio.com.au
Content-Length: 51033
Date: Fri, 02 Mar 2012 00:34:29 GMT
X-Varnish: 1528886131
Age: 0
Via: 1.1 varnish
Connection: close
Management - Case studies - CIO
Critical. Authoritative.
Strategic.
Subscribe to CIO Magazine »
CIO
Media Releases
Whitepapers
PartnerZones
CIO Executive Council
Events
Newsletters
Home
Career
News
Industry
Education
Finance
Government
Health
Utilities
Retail
Opinions
Blogs
Forums
Analyst Angle
Vendor View
Legal/IP
Slideshows
Management
Project Management
Risk Management
Budgeting
Innovation
IT Value
Change Management
Collaboration
Business Intelligence
Consumerisation of IT
KM/Storage
Mobile/Wireless/Convergence
Business Continuity
Infrastructure
BPM
Sourcing
Security
Cloud Computing
SOA
Management » Case studies »
1
Coca-Cola Amatil's journey: Lotus Notes to BPOS
Beverage company Coca-Cola Amatil (CCA) is halfway through the massive task of migrating its over 8000 employees from Lotus Notes to Microsoft's hosted Business Productivity Online Suite, the company revealed in a presentation at Microsoft's Tech.Ed conference on the Gold Coast this week.
Written by Jenna Pitcher •
27 Aug. 10 09:34
CIOs looking to increase business value from technology
Post credit crisis CIOs will not be totally focused on cost reduction, but instead looking to use technology to add value to the organisation. In the same month that saw the announcement that the next CEO of retailer Tesco will be its CIO; a study by KPMG finds that CIOs are looking beyond the recession to really drive the business forward through technology use, just as Tesco did.
Written by Mark Chillingworth •
21 June 10 23:49
ABC music mashup shows off the Semantic Web
Until recently, the idea of a World Wide Web in which information and services are defined - the Semantic Web - has remained something developers aspire to rather than a reality. That is starting to change. Earlier this year, the ABC launched three new socially networked digital radio websites which aggregate content from several different sources, including MusicBrainz, YouTube, Last.fm and Wikipedia. It is not only a new approach for a content-rich organisation such as the ABC, it is a working example of the possibilities of Semantic Web technology.
Written by Georgina Swan •
11 Oct. 09 14:42
Telstra off-shoot dishes up AI
When New Zealand pizza franchise Hell Pizza made the journey across the Tasman to set-up shop in Brisbane, it needed to get noticed fast.
Written by Kathryn Edwards •
27 May 09 14:38
Planning Helps Data Centre Move Go Smoothly
It isn't often that you have access to your local neighborhood data centre, literally a few steps down the block. But I did. I live in a residential area of the US state of St. Louis called the Central West End, and I pass by the offices of the Regional Justice Information Service (REJIS) almost every day. When I learned that it was going to be moving its data centre, I knew that I had to be there for the actual move.
Written by David Strom •
21 June 07 16:15
Linux, Open Source Software Pay Off for PayPal
When Scott Thompson left Visa to take the CTO role at PayPal in 2005, the Web company's data centre surprised him. "Wait a minute," he recalls saying, "they run a payment system on Linux?"
Written by Phil Hochmuth •
26 March 07 09:20
Gartner, Align Thyself
When Gartner's current CIO took the helm and called attention
to terminal misalignment, was it a case of the emperor's new clothes? Here's a candid look at where Gartner's been and where it's going.
Written by Marc Ferranti •
14 Dec. 01 12:40
Change in Perspective
Announced in 1996, AMPlus, the IT alliance between AMP and then Andersen Consulting, was hailed as an "engine of transformation" by then CEO George Trumbull. Today, AMP is minus the "plus" and going it alone - welcome to IT@AMP
Written by Keith Power •
08 Sept. 01 11:00
Most Read
Most Commented
1How to create a clear project plan2The social business network3Samsung's Ice Cream Sandwich update schedule45 open source help desk apps to watch55 open source billing systems to watch
2The social business network2CIO role will eventually cease to exist, claim CFOs3Parents herald rise in apps to help treat autism but proof of therapeutic benefits is lacking2Apple settles iPhone 4 'Antennagate' class-action lawsuit2Samsung's Ice Cream Sandwich update schedule
Get exclusive access to Invitation only events CIO, reports & analysis. Sign up now »
Latest Jobs
FTTechnical Operations ManagerNSW
FTSEM SpecialistVIC
FTSenior .Net Developer/ConsultantNSW
FTProduct Manager / Application StrategistNSW
CCSenior J2EE Software Engineer with MongoDB experienceNSW
FTSenior C# ASP.Net DeveloperNSW
CCSenior J2EE Software Engineer with MongoDB experienceNSW
FTASP.NET Developer (Digital)NSW
FTASP.NET Developer (Digital)NSW
CCJava DeveloperNSW
FTASP.NET Developer (Digital)NSW
FTSupport Consultant - Global Vendor - $55-75,000NSW
Zones
HP Business Efficiency - Money Payback Guarantee Resource Centre
Visit zone »
The Australian Cloud
Visit zone »
Featured Whitepapers
Mobile Security: Don’t leave employees to their own devices
No organisation can afford to ignore the rising march of consumer devices in today’s workplace. But neither can they ignore the risks that consumerisation brings. Companies must adapt IT and ...
Oracle x86 Rack Servers Optimized for Rapid Deployments and Operational Efficiency
Traditional Backup is Dead - Are you prepared?
Managing Growth: A review of the global software & IT services industry
Most Popular Whitepapers
1
The Pathways ICT Leadership Development Program Brochure and Curriculum 2012
Developed by the CIO executive Council, Pathways is a unique, flexible, self-managed, self-paced 12-month CIO designed and delivered ...
2
The Rise of Two-Tier ERP
3
Eight threats your antivirus won’t stop - Why you need endpoint security
Recent comments
"WINE isn't an emulator. It's an open source implementation of the Windows ..."
Raspberry Pi's $US25 PC to be back on sale in a month
"its great change that will will positivly affected on the nokia technolgies ..."
Nokia's interim CTO gets permanent status
"will samsung galaxy w get an update for ics??"
Samsung's Ice Cream Sandwich update schedule
"its Filipino. not Philippinio. :) I believe its on AutoCorrect."
Working well with different cultures
"Thanks James - good to know!"
The social business network
Follow CIO
LinkedIn
Twitter
YouTube
Facebook
Newsletter
Market Place
Application Lifecycle Management Zone - Whitepapers | Videos | Events | e-books | Case Studies and more. Visit the Zone
How does Gartner rank ALM providers? Download the analysis report
Improving Storage Efficiencies with Data Deduplication and Compression - Download free resource
Latest Jobs
Senior .Net Developer/Consultant
Support Consultant - Global Vendor - $55-75,000
SEM Specialist
ASP.NET Developer (Digital)
Senior J2EE Software Engineer with MongoDB experience
Subscribe to CIO
Critical. Authoritative. Strategic. CIO magazine addresses the issues vital to the success of IT and business executives. Solutions-oriented editorial provides a greater understanding of the role IT plays in achieving corporate goals. Subscribe to the print edition today.
All
LinuxWorld
Computerworld
CIO
CSO Online
ARN
PODCAST
Download OPML file for import with all IDG RSS feeds
LinuxWorld News
LinuxWorld Technology List
Software Development by Computerworld
Business by Computerworld
Computerworld Business In-Depth
Security Alerts by Computerworld
Security Weekly by Computerworld
Linux & Open Source by Computerworld
Mobility & Wireless by Computerworld
Networking by Computerworld
Storage Solutions by Computerworld
Telecoms by Computerworld
.NET Centre
Careers by Computerworld
Computerworld Today
CIO Executive Briefing
CIO Government
CSO Online Data Security Briefing
ARN Daily
ARN PC and Components
Networking
ARN Security
Storage
ARN Mobility and Wireless
CIO Live (MP3) RSS Feed
CIO Live (WMA) RSS Feed
Computerworld Live (MP3) RSS Feed
Computerworld Live (WMA) RSS Feed
CSO
In Pictures: Tablets with serious security for business
Republican senators introduce their own cybersecurity bill
Japanese government issues Google rare public reminder of privacy laws
Security experts debate if markets or legal liability will ensure secure software
More than half of organizations take months or years to discover a breach, Verizon says
Computerworld
Windows 8 preview breaks 1M download mark in first 24 hours
Windows XP slide continues; Mac OS X posts record gain
Hands on with Windows Server 8 beta
Internet voting systems too insecure, researcher warns
Altair Semiconductor finds a place among mobile innovators
ARN
No end in sight for Dick Smith and Harvey Norman retail woes: ARA
Gartner’s number for Australian BI software market growth for 2012 “not enough”: QlikTech
Optus offers unlimited data roaming for Aussie travellers
Analysis: Assessing the commercial implications of the carbon tax
APP OF THE DAY: Flashlight 7
Techworld
Microsoft to offer government-only cloud option for Office 365
Zynga to launch games platform, invites third-party developers
New classification system to streamline ratings
World Tech Update, March 2, 2012
Windows 8 preview breaks 1M download mark in first 24 hours
CFO
Vehicle Vibrations On Roads To Generate Electricity
Bendigo And Adelaide Bank Complete Acquisition Of Bank Of Cyprus Australia
Assessing the commercial implications of the carbon tax
Computer Program To Automatically Generate News Stories From Tweets
Chinese companies in global hunt for talent
Send Us E-mail |
Privacy Policy [Updated 7 Aug 09] |
Advertising |
BooksCSO |
Subscribe to CIO |
Subscribe to emails |
IDG registered user login |
Subscribe to IDG Publications |
Contact Us |
2012 Features
Copyright 2012 IDG Communications. ABN 14 001 592 650. All rights reserved. Reproduction in whole or in part in any form or medium without express written permission of IDG Communications
