Queer as Folk - The Complete Third Season (Showtime) [VHS] at Distinct Video
Enter Keywords:
Queer as Folk - The Complete Third Season (Showtime) VHS
Buy Queer as Folk - The Complete Third Season (Showtime) VHS here, one of many Queer As Folk and related products at Distinct Video. We greatly appreciate your patronage at Distinct Video and look forward to offering you great products and prices on the videos and DVDs you want most.
Current Page:   VHS &mp; DVD Videos : Queer As Folk : Item 5 of 106
Previous Queer As Folk
Next Queer As Folk
Buy This Item
Queer as Folk - The Complete Third Season (Showtime) [VHS]
Available from Amazon
$99.57
on 2-28-2012
Features
Actors: Gale Harold, Hal Sparks, Randy Harrison, Michelle Clunie, Robert Gant
Directors: Alex Chapple, Bruce McDonald, Chris Grismer, David Wellington, Jeremy Podeswa
Format: Box set, NTSC
Language: English
Number of tapes: 4
Studio: Showtime Networks
VHS Release Date: February 24, 2004
Amazon.com
Drama ruled in a big way on the third season of Queer as Folk, as the gay men and women of Pittsburgh rode a roller coaster of emotional and personal upheavals that would make a regular soap-opera cast blanch. Budding comic book artist Justin (Randy Harrison) finally left longtime lover Brian for a chance at ecstasy--and not a bit of agony   with a charming violin player. Emmett (Peter Paige) finally came face-to-face with his affection for friend Ted (Scott Lowell), only to have Ted's growing drug habit get in the way of their happiness. Lesbians Melanie (Michelle Clunie) and Lindsay (Thea Gill) decided to have another baby, whose father would be Michael (Hal Sparks), whose nesting with hunky Ben (Robert Gant) is rudely interrupted by runaway Hunter (Harris Allan). And as for Brian (Gale Harold), the man everybody wants but can't ever have? Just when it seems he's gone to work for the enemy--a homophobic mayoral candidate   it turns out he might be the savior the Pittsburgh gay community never knew it needed.
Snaps to the makers of QAF for trying to bring their characters into the grown-up world    Michael, Emmett, and Ted started their own businesses; Justin finally cut loose from Brian   but too many melodramatic plot twists and turns impeded a lot of the character development this show worked hard at during its first two seasons. Still, most of the cast was topnotch, including Harrison, whose Justin finally came into his own, and the always dependable Harold, who made Brian a fascinating creature through all his steamy travails and over-the-top encounters. --Mark Englehart
Reader Reviews
QUEER AS FOLK is still one of the most amazing TV Shows ever and is a landmark as the show for the new millennium. This New Queer As Folk Season 3 DVD Box Set has all 14 episodes of the third season of one of the most controversial and bravest series on television today. The BOX SET includes Bonus features such as: Behind-the-camera, Hot Summer Days, Wrap Party Reel, Enter Babylon LA, Meet the Folks, Animated Photo Gallery, Season Four Sneak Preview, Weblink, Music Videos, and a few other surprises. I have seen all 14 episodes of Season 3 and it is another great season with some major twists. I am a little upset that this season is very short when compared to season 1 and 2, which both had about 7 or 8 more episodes, but either way it is still a good season. I am still amazed at how honest this show is on dealing with gay life. Not every gay person lives a life like these guys, and I sure don't but thatis not what this show is about. Queer As Folk ia about the life of a group of gay guys and a lesbian couple living in Pittsburgh. Queer As Folk makes no apologies and thats what is so great about this series. From the graphic sex scenes to the drama of dealing with the prejudice that still haunts America, this show is so brave and I give Showtime a big thumbs up for having the balls to take on such a big risk as Queer As Folk. This show is as close as it gets to real life. This is not a show just for gay people, but for ALL people. It deals with human emotion and thats something that we can all relate to whether we be straight, gay, bisexual, black, white, brown or in between. I encourage anyone who has a open mind and a open heart to BUY this amazing DVD collection as it will inspire you and if nothing else open your mind to a lifestyle not as uncommon as you may think. Watch more than one episode before you judge this amazing series. I would just like to say Queer As Folk Season 1 and 2 are also great to own. I will be in line when they release Season 3 of Queer As Folk on DVD in February 2004.
Queer as Folk - The Complete Third Season (Showtime) [VHS]
Available from Amazon Price: $99.57 Updated on 2-28-2012.
SPONSORED LINKS
DistinctVideo.com is offering Queer as Folk - The Complete Third Season (Showtime) VHS

