LG Electronics LG 8x DVD+ -RW DL Lightscribe USB 2.0 External Drive - - Buy LG Electronics LG 8x DVD+ -RW DL Lightscribe USB 2.0 External Drive -, lg electronics Online Discount Notebooks
Discount Notebooks
Home  Contact  Privacy Policy  XML Map  Site Map
Home
Brands
Categories
absolute software
active thermal
aeon lighting
anchor audio
applica
barnett crossbows
blue lounge
broderbund software
car driver
carson
chester creek
compucessory
electrolux home care
emedia corporation
equinox
eveready
fargo inc
gerber
hamilton beach
hi imaging technologies
homaco
ibm server
kworld
lepages
lg electronics
master caster
merriam webster
micropac technologies inc
mitsubishi projectors
nady
perle system
phihong usa corp
portable sound labs
pyramid
sda
sierra inc
sonic solutions
speck products
ult
vanguard
vizio inc
wiebetech
yoostar
Site Map
Custom Search
LG Electronics LG 8x DVD+ -RW DL Lightscribe USB 2.0 External Drive -
Shop online for lg electronics products
including LG Electronics LG 8x DVD+ -RW DL Lightscribe USB 2.0 External Drive -, devices drives dvd drives external, Notebooks, Desktop & all-in-one PCs, Home servers & media receivers, Monitors, Accessories, Printers from top brands.
The attractive, slim design of the LG Super-Multi GP08LU30 external optical disc drive trims the unnecessary bulk making it very portable. Simply plug via USB and burn CDs at 24x and DVD Rs at 8x speeds. LightScribe direct disc labeling gives you the abilty to etch customized labels onto a special coated LightScribe disc. All in a sleek package, the LG GP08LU30 delivers what you want for your CD and DVD burning needs.
Shop
online for LG Electronics LG 8x DVD+ -RW DL Lightscribe USB 2.0 External Drive - and more
lg electronics products at Mac Connection.
Buy
Online at Mac Connection - Click Here!
More
about LG Electronics LG 8x DVD+ -RW DL Lightscribe USB 2.0 External Drive -:
Brand
Name : lg electronics
Category: devices drives dvd drives external
Where to buy LG Electronics LG 8x DVD+ -RW DL Lightscribe USB 2.0 External Drive - online:
Mac Connection
The attractive, slim design of the LG Super-Multi GP08LU30 external optical disc drive trims the unnecessary bulk making it very portable. Simply plug via USB and burn CDs at 24x and DVD Rs at 8x speeds. LightScribe direct disc labeling gives you the abilty to etch customized labels onto a special coated LightScribe disc. All in a sleek package, the LG GP08LU30 delivers what you want for your CD and DVD burning needs.
The attractive, slim design of the LG Super-Multi GP08LU30 external optical disc drive trims the unnecessary bulk making it very portable. Simply plug via USB and burn CDs at 24x and DVD Rs at 8x speeds. LightScribe direct disc labeling gives you the abil
Buy
Notebooks, Desktop & all-in-one PCs, Home servers & media receivers, Monitors, Accessories, Printers from top brands, LG Electronics LG 8x DVD+ -RW DL Lightscribe USB 2.0 External Drive -, devices drives dvd drives external, discount sale offers and more online at Mac Connection.
<
Previous Product  |  Next
Product >
Notebooks, Desktop & all-in-one PCs, Home servers & media receivers, Monitors, Accessories, Printers & all-in-ones, Ink & toner, iPaq handhelds, Calculators and Scanners. Browse the other featured brands and categories for discount notebooks from top brands like HP, IBM, Sony Vaio and Apple Mac, as well as Palm Centro, iPhone and iPod Touch.
Acer Says It Has No Plans to Phase out Netbooks. Acer on Wednesday in a statement
said that it has no plans to phase out netbooks as it increases its focus on tablets.
The company also said that it does not foresee tablets based on Sandy Bridge processors,
contrary to comments made earlier this week by an Acer sales manager in Taiwan.
Lu Bing-hsian earlier this week told the IDG News Service that Acer would begin
selling new tablet PCs in the first half of this year as it gradually phases out
netbooks and that tablets would come with processors based on Intel's Sandy Bridge
microarchitecture. "For the moment it is not foreseen yet ... devices based
on Sandy Bridge," Acer said. Acer said the range of devices available to
users is expanding and that tablets "will find their space next to netbooks
and notebooks, without taking over." Acer in November announced new tablets
with 5-inch, 7-inch and 10-inch screens running on Google's Android operating system, which were also shown at the recent Consumer Electronics Show. The company
also showed a tablet with a 10-inch screen running Windows 7
