Retail conference with Reggie recorded. Some nice tidbits! [Mobile/Archive]
- Cheap Ass Gamer
Cheap Ass Gamer > Video Game Discussions > Nintendo Gaming >
Retail conference with Reggie recorded. Some nice tidbits!
PDA
View Full Version : Retail conference with Reggie recorded. Some nice tidbits!
Grave_Addiction06-24-2005, 12:33 PMHopefully not a repost.
http://www.optimalcamouflage.com/reggie_retail.wma
evilmax1706-24-2005, 12:34 PMBullet point summary anyone?
Grave_Addiction06-24-2005, 12:53 PMIt can be kind of hard to hear Reggie at times, so I typed up the entire clip as best I could.
As you can see, Revolution will more than hold its own in graphical performance.
What we also know is that what you publishers and developers see when you look at the spec sheet of our competitor's new systems. Larger budgets, higher staffing, steeper learning curve and longer production schedules.
Nintendo Revolution is designed to be none of these. Our conscious decision was to take a different path. Revolution will be the home to stunning new game masterpieces from Nintendo and our third parties.
In fact, the balance built into Revolution makes it the perfect choice to achieve your highest creative goals. But if your budgets are a little more (motto?), I would recommend to also envision the creation of much better game experiences with much less hassle.
We expect the time frame needed to make Nintendo's Revolution game to be substantially shorter than all of our competitors. In effect, we see Revolution to be the best new console for game developing partners no matter what type of game you're making.
Finally for all of our retail partners, I can hear you whispering under your breaths, "Don't tell me about developing games, just tell me what games you're gonna deliver."
Well, let's talk about that. First, we expect the great third-party support we now have on Gamecube to be both stronger and earlier on the Revolution. And we will be more aggressive than ever in having our own new in-house stars, the greatest gathering of (byte-sized characters?) in history by as early as possible.
You can expect new Nintendo intelluctual properties in the launch window. Our franchise stars are about to make some new friends.
And you should know that development of new Revolution titles is already underway.
Javery06-24-2005, 12:55 PMNice!
evilmax1706-24-2005, 12:58 PMMuch much appreciated for that, thank you.
"our already great third party support" was funny.
Sounds like they saw a video at first.
Shorter dev times + easy dev = hopefully tons of games
Strell06-24-2005, 12:59 PMnew game *couldn't understand what he was saying here* from Nintendo and our third parties.
He said "masterpieces."
That's all I have to add.
Now, where did this come from?
This speech?
I mean it sounds like we've only got about the last half of this speech.
It's apparent that at some point he must have been discussing raw graphical power.
"It will more than hold its own."
That makes feel a bit better about that issue, but it is Reggie, meaning I know it's his job to hype...He mentions competitor spec sheets as if he has something comparable to them right now (i.e., as he's talking to these people).
There's got to be some information on this somewhere.
I need some serious reassurance about the graphics, and it sounds like this could be the first indication that the power issue is about to be put to rest.
I mean, if all the systems are within 10% or so of each other in terms of raw power, then the graphics debate is dead.
Put the best graphical games of all three systems now, and you can barely tell a true difference.
I assume it's going to be exactly the same for the next generation.
Of course, that's just all my speculation.
jkam06-24-2005, 01:02 PMSounds good. I want to see Kid Icarus back! I think Nintendo has a good idea with giving developers an easier task. It would be nice to see the Revolution get really solid 3rd party support. I wouldn't mind seeing some of the things that the XBOX and the PS2 got such as Street Fighter Anniversary Collection (online) as long as there done right. The N64 and the Cube had great games but lacked in pure numbers of titles. With this new approach they may be able to swing some back their way. Anxiously awaiting this console.
ryanbph06-24-2005, 01:03 PMI thought their was a recent interview with nintendo, saying they weren't done with the revolution.
How are they making the games, if they don't have an idea on what the revolution will be.
I am sure it will be easy to develop for Nintendo, but doesn't the XNA, also cut down on costs and development time?
evilmax1706-24-2005, 01:06 PMI need some serious reassurance about the graphics.
It's been said that the Rev will be 3 times more powerful than the GCN.
Look at RE4, and picture it times 3.
I think that would look pretty good!
the3rdkey06-24-2005, 01:07 PMI thought their was a recent interview with nintendo, saying they weren't done with the revolution.
How are they making the games, if they don't have an idea on what the revolution will be.
I am sure it will be easy to develop for Nintendo, but doesn't the XNA, also cut down on costs and development time?
They are done with the SPECs,
the final system design will be smaller.
Strell06-24-2005, 01:09 PMYea, and I know the bullshit "OMG 1600 TIMES MORE POWERFUL" from MS and Sony is just hype, and that the 2-3x power is something conservative from Nintendo, but I still want something a little more concrete than vague jargon.
Still, even a leap of that beyond Zelda/RE4/Metroid Prime is enough to render my brain dizzy.
Javery06-24-2005, 01:11 PMWell, we know games won't look as nice on the Revolution simply due to the lack of HD support unless you are one of those billion unlucky bastards without an HDTV...
Strell06-24-2005, 01:14 PMLet's see.
15 FPS game on HD.
Or 60 FPS game on normal tv.
Yea, I'm worried too.
willardhaven06-24-2005, 01:22 PMa 20" signal with s-video or component cables makes a lot of HD sets look like crap...
screw resolution, I like high FPS myself.
Revolution sounds like it will be good, I wish we could just get Gamecube 2 though.
jkam06-24-2005, 01:25 PMWell, we know games won't look as nice on the Revolution simply due to the lack of HD support unless you are one of those billion unlucky bastards without an HDTV...
I know your'e really ticked about the Revo and HD. There are already some sites up to try to sway Nintendo.
http://www.1080up.org/
You may want to e-mail Nintendo yourself as well. The more people that do may sway them to add it.
D4rkewolfe07-07-2005, 01:38 AMFirst -- please be civil and post here. Too many HD topics floating around.
Second -- HD is up in the air. Whether an article says it will be on there, or one says it won't, with over a year before release, anything can change.
Third -- Would the addition or subtraction of HD have an effect on you buying a Revolution? Is it that important to you?
Finally -- Have a conversation, not a fight
That's from one of the NOA people in their forums.
So with the list going around, if you really want it, have it signed.
As they said, anything can change.
PawnTakesKing07-07-2005, 02:15 AM...unless you are one of those billion unlucky bastards without an HDTV...
*raises hand in shame*
MorPhiend07-16-2005, 07:35 PMHe said "masterpieces." That's all I have to add.
Now, where did this come from? This speech? I mean it sounds like we've only got about the last half of this speech. It's apparent that at some point he must have been discussing raw graphical power. "It will more than hold its own." That makes feel a bit better about that issue, but it is Reggie, meaning I know it's his job to hype...He mentions competitor spec sheets as if he has something comparable to them right now (i.e., as he's talking to these people). There's got to be some information on this somewhere. I need some serious reassurance about the graphics, and it sounds like this could be the first indication that the power issue is about to be put to rest.
I mean, if all the systems are within 10% or so of each other in terms of raw power, then the graphics debate is dead. Put the best graphical games of all three systems now, and you can barely tell a true difference. I assume it's going to be exactly the same for the next generation.
Of course, that's just all my speculation.
As to the graphical power, all I can say is search for the thread back around e3 time about the new patent concerning cube mapping. Some said that was old technology. But read the whole patent. It is not the same as the old "cube maps." It is a new technology that is designed to allow for "low" spec systems that consume low power to outperform high tech, expensive, loud energy wasting chipsets. I wouldn't be surprised if the specs themselves are on par with M$, and in practice are up to Sony's system - if this tech actually is part of the RevOlution...
EDIT: I justlistened to this. Isn't it the pre-e3 Nintendo conference? Thatthing was an hour long. That's probably why you didn't notice.
Sarang0107-22-2005, 05:59 PMI know your'e really ticked about the Revo and HD. There are already some sites up to try to sway Nintendo.
http://www.1080up.org/
You may want to e-mail Nintendo yourself as well. The more people that do may sway them to add it.
I plan to call Nintendo out on it ON the radio and KC, hopefully to shame them into it.
I'm a Nintendo fan and already have a HD set and will be severely PISSED if Nintendo doesn't support it.
Also I'm even willing to PAY extra to get a Revolution with an HDMI and new Firewire
