Harbhajan's case: Bhajji is all set to play again!
slideshows
gallery //
In Focus
Players
Snapped
Match Reviews
Tests
ODIs
Twenty20
More >>
Schedule
Next
Previous
Harbhajan's case: Bhajji is all set to play again!
-->
-->
mandira srivastavaJan 30 2008
Bhajji’s fans will be very delighted to see him playing on the ground again. Few hours before, Indian Cricket team that was ready to come back leaving the Australian tour in the mid, is all set to play for 20-20 match in Melbourne .
We might witness a healthy tough competition between the two leading teams of the world. Thank God!
The racism charges against Harbhajan Singh had been dropped but he has to pay 50 per cent of match fees. Don’t you think, this outcome was bound to happen and there was no other outcome possible? Ultimately,money rules over everything else. There is too much money at stake to cancel the tour both officially and unofficially A lot of money of the organizers, advertisers and sponsors could be saved due the decision of Indian team to play the one day series too.
We all know cricket is not only game but also a nice opportunity for corporate houses to advertise their products and services.nnterDefinitely, few people like me would not like to accept this judgment, it was Symonds who provoked Bhajji first then he should be the first one who should be punished (He should also give 50 percent of his match fee)! They are saying Bhajji is let off for his past good behavior, as if they are doing a favour to him and India.
Also the Australian team has proved the world that they are bunch of liars and cheats supported by Procter.No can one forget that India had defeated Australia in 20-20 match finals. Yes! We all Indian cricket enthusiastic are waiting for that magic again. Good luck,team India!via
You might also like
Please enable JavaScript to view the comments powered by Disqus.
Related Stories
England May Not Play Neutral Hosts to Pakistan Again After Match Fixing Scandal
England will be weighing up the costs of playing hosts after Pakistan cricket has been rocked by match fixing scandal.
The England and Wales Cricket Board ( ECB ) may not be as enterprising, offering to play hosts for a neutral venue for Pakistan...
Sehwag: Don't Want to Open; Bhajji: Critics Should Shut up
Even as the euphoric Indian team has been split as sponsors woo their market with having cricketers do the publicity rounds, startling comments keep popping out of their mouths.
Virender Sehwag, captain of the Delhi Daredevils, has come out once..
India all set to take revenge in the test series
Riding on the superb batting performance in the Antigua tour match, wounded Team India is now fully determined to take revenge on the Indies when they play first test of the four match series.
Although the second and final practice match ended in a...
Stuart Law all Set to Help England Batting
He was born in Australia, the 37-year-old qualified as a British citizen in 2005, he has played county cricket for Essex and Lancashire for more than 10 years now... This is Lancashire's batsman Stuart Law, he has shown interest in becoming a batting...
Virat Kohli And Co. Enjoy Bike Ride before Formula One Racing ( See Pics)
Is it not known that the Indian cricketers can also love demons of speed? Even as some of the Indian cricket team will fly to Noida for the first Formula One Indian Grand Prix, they did enjoy bike rides, although not on the circuit, with the keys firmly w
FEATUREDIN PAST
CONNECT WITH US
ADVERTISE WITH US
Advertise with usContact UsArchives
Crick Blog© 2010 Instamedia Pvt. Ltd.All rights reserved
ON THE NEXT PAGE
Virat Kohli And Co. Enjoy Bike Ride before Formula One...
Spotfixing Jury Remains Undecided on the Fate of Butt,...
Sachin Tendulkar, Dhoni, Yuvraj Expected at First...
Michael Clarke Warns Katich Comeback Tough after...
Indian Cricketers' Grade Contracts List Released
India's First Test Squad v WI Sees Harbhajan Singh...
Graeme Swann Gets Death Threats over ODI Series Loss...
Shahid Afridi's Last Retirement Promise
Simon Katich Alleges Michael Clarke
