Jürgen Frisch Appointed Chief Medical Officer Of European Operations At Clinipace Worldwide
Press Release Service
Members Area
Register Now
About Us
Sitemap
Jürgen Frisch Appointed Chief Medical Officer Of European Operations At Clinipace Worldwide
Share
|
Distinguished Physician and Life Science Executive to Lead European-Based Medical and Regulatory Teams While Providing Expert Guidance and Advisory Services to Clients Worldwide
ZURICH, SWITZERLAND and MORRISVILLE, NC (I-Newswire) February 10, 2012 - ZURICH, SWITZERLAND and MORRISVILLE, NC -- Clinipace Worldwide, a global digital contract research organization (dCRO) that has pioneered technology-amplified contract research services, announced today the appointment of Jürgen Frisch, MD, to Chief Medical Officer of European Operations.
In this position, Jürgen is responsible for providing leadership and direction to the medical and regulatory service groups within the European Operations at Clinipace Worldwide.
Jürgen is based in the Zurich office.
Over his long and distinguished career, Jürgen held several senior medical and management positions at multinational pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, including Eidetica Biopharma GmbH (a subsidiary of Biogen Idec), immatics biotechnologies GmbH, Intercell AG, Genetics Institute GmbH, HMR Hoechst Marion Roussel GmbH, and Behringwerke AG.
Prior to joining Clinipace Worldwide, Jürgen served as a medical reviewer at Swissmedic (Medical Health Authority) in Bern, Switzerland.
Jürgen completed his Medical Doctorate in Internal Medicine at the Johannes Gutenberg University of Mainz, served on the faculty of Medicine in Mainz; and is Board Certified in Internal Medicine.
“With Jürgen’s expertise as a researcher and drug developer, clients worldwide will receive the very best guidance and advisory services for their drug development programs,” said Kurt Pfister, CEO of European Operations at Clinipace Worldwide.
About Clinipace Worldwide
As a global full-service digital contract research organization (dCRO), we have pioneered an innovative technology-amplified research model to serve the unique needs of emerging and mid-tier biopharmaceutical and medical device firms.
Powered by TEMPO™, our proprietary eClinical platform, our team of experts brings extensive therapeutic knowledge and insight into assisting life science firms in developing and executing regulatory strategies, clinical development, and post-approval research to ensure a successful drug and medical device development program.
We have managed over 600 global contract research and regulatory projects.
Clinipace Worldwide is headquartered in ResearchTriangle Park, North Carolina with offices in Boulder, Overland Park, Zurich, Munich, Tel-Aviv, Sao Paulo, Buenos Aires, Lima, and New Delhi.
For more information visit our website at www.clinipace.com.
###
Media Contact:
Molly Thompson
mthompson [at] crossroadspr dot com
919.821.2822
Company Contact Information
Crossroads PR
Molly Thompson
4030 Wake Forest Rd.
27609
Phone : 919-821-2822
Print Release
Share this News Release
Published in:
Science and Research
Tags:
Clinipace Worldwide
Jürgen Frisch
digital contract research organization (
Published on:
February 10, 2012
If you have questions regarding information in this press release contact the company listed above. I-Newswire.com is a press release service and not the author of this press release.The information that is on or available through this site is for informational purposes only and speaks only as of the particular date or dates of that information. As some companies and PR Agencies submit their press releases once per week,month or quarter,make sure to check the official company website for accurate release dates as our site displays the I-Newswire.com press release distribution date only.We do not guarantee the accuracy or completeness of information on or available through this site, and we are not responsible for inaccuracies or omissions in that information or for actions taken in reliance on that information.
Related Releases
Jürgen Frisch Appointed Chief Medical Officer Of European Operations At Clinipace Worldwide
Distinguished Physician and Life Science Executive to Lead European-Based Medical and Regulatory Teams While Providing Expert Guidance and Advisory Services to Clients Worldwide
Save Upwards Of Fifty Percent On a Solar Power Kit for Your Home or Business
Simple Energy Works (www.SimpleEnergyWorks.com), a NABCEP certified solar system designer and installer,offers Solar Power Kits for upwards of fifty percent cheaper than the average solar power system cost.
Gamma Scientific to Showcase Comprehensive LED Testing Solutions at Strategies in Light
Attendees can visit Gamma Scientific at Strategies in Light 2012 to view live demonstrations of complete LED test solutions and learn how to optimize their LED testing for maximum performance.
Gamma Scientific will be at booths 501 and 600.
Faculty Of 1000 Introduces A Novel Open Access Publishing Venture: F1000 Research
Faculty of 1000 today announces F1000 Research, a new fully Open Access publishing program across biology and medicine that will launch later this year.
TCG Lifesciences Completes Key Milestones On Delivery Of Pre-Clinical Drug Candidates To Endo Pharmaceuticals
TCG Lifesciences Limited (TCGLS) announced the achievement of two distinct milestones in their ongoing drug discovery partnership with Endo Pharmaceuticals
