X-Cache: MISS from ameinfo.com
Connection: close
Citibank UAE participates in Injaz-UAE Job Shadow Day Programme | Citibank | AMEinfo.com
AME Info - The ultimate Middle East business resource
Arabic
Newsletters
Register
Why Register
Register
Login
Log in to AMEInfo.com
Login
Remember me
Forgot your password?
Don't have an account? Register
Go
Advanced Search
Industries
Companies
Events
Video & Audio
Jobs
Country Guides
Grow Your Business
Home : News : Company News : C : Citi : Citibank
Browse
related articles
« Previous article
Next article »
Citibank UAE participates in Injaz-UAE Job Shadow Day Programme
United Arab Emirates:
Sunday, February 12 - 2012 at 14:04
PRESS RELEASE
Related content
Citigroup appoints Elissar Farah Antonios as CEO of... »
Pictet appoints UAE new management team »
Emirates NBD investment CEO leaving after 20 years  »
Abu Dhabi aided Emirates NBD in Dubai Bank buy »
Citibank UAE recently hosted Grade 12 students from Za'abeel Public School for Girls, as part of JA Job Shadow programme, organized by Injaz-UAE. The young girls spent the day at the bank for an authentic work world experience, as they walked in the shoes of Citi professionals, who have volunteered for the day to share their daily work activities and skills.
Citi hosts introduced students to various departments including E-Business, Tech, Account Documentation, Branch Banking, Compliance, Corporate Affairs, HR, Citi Services, Tele Marketing, and CitiPhone.In collaboration with Citibank,this visit introduced students to career options and the skills required to enter the banking sector. During the day, volunteer hosts interacted with students in a two-way dialogue, leading to sharing career aspirations by students and career experience by the host. In addition, the volunteer hosts, who acted as role models, offered valuable career guidance as they gave students real-life insight and first-hand experience into the corporate world."It was invigorating while interacting with bright, young, enthusiastic Emiratis," said Lata Swaminathan, Vice President, Acquisitions & Marketing, Middle East, Citibank, NRI Business, Dubai.The Job Shadow Day primarily focuses on developing students' work-readiness skills that prepares them for the modern world of work. The program is designed to introduce students to careers through one-day, on-site orientations for an authentic real-world experience, enhanced with a variety of classroom preparatory and follow-up learning activities. The program takes youth out of their school day and everyday environment to expose them to jobs and introduce them to role models who can help them plan for their future. The program also enables youth to become knowledgeable about a wider range of career avenues and an array of social and personal aspects that impact their career choices and future goals.Expressing her satisfaction with the experience, EramAsghar Mohammad had spent her Job Shadow Day in the HR Department and attended a real interview. She commented "The interviewee lacked confidence and basic work readiness skills that we had been taught in the classroom; therefore, it was a no hire for me." The programme takes youth out of their school day and everyday environment to expose them to jobs and introduce them to role models who can help them plan for their future. The programme also enables youth to become knowledgeable about a wider range of career avenues and an array of social and personal aspects that impact their career choices and future goals. Venus Alde, Learning & Development Head, Citibank - UAE, commented "We were delighted to take part in INJAZ's Job Shadow Day programme and be able to provide the students from Za'abeel School the opportunity to explore the world of banking.
The visit provided them enriching and experiential learning where they experienced a typical day at Citi with the guidance of their Job Shadow Hosts. During their visit they had a better understanding of our working environment, discovered skills required for the career they are interested in and understood the importance of team work and interpersonal skills.
For many of the students, the experience led them to explore and think of various career options that they've never considered before.""For the Job Shadow Hosts, being able to take part in such an initiative was indeed a rewarding experience. We are all glad to be able to make a difference," she added.Citibank will open its doors every semester to host high school and university students at its premises to implement the programme. Citi volunteers also deliver a number of world-class INJAZ-UAE programs, namely Personal Economics and JA Banks in Action."With Citi's collaboration, we are shaping the development of Emirati youth and the future leaders of this country, by giving them a foretaste of career opportunities
that exist in the banking sector, and in a larger context, the private-sector," said Sulaf Saleh Al-Zu'bi, CEO, INJAZ-UAE. "The Job Shadow is an intriguing andinvaluable learning experience for students. The programme pairsclassroom learning with real work exposure to the corporate world. Because of this exposure, they understand the requirements of the modern workplace and what it takes to succeed. As a result, they are able to plan their careers and make better choices that match their skills and abilities.""Citi volunteers have played a remarkable role as they their experiences and skills to help prepare students to meet the challenges of the real world," she added.
The Job Shadow Day primarily focuses on developing students' work-readiness skills that prepares them for the modern world of work.
Enlarge »
Article Options
PDF
E-mail
Print
Save
Login to Add to Watchlist
Log in to request more information from Citibank
Related site: http://www.citi.com
Posted by Rana Mesbah
Sunday, February 12 - 2012 at 14:04 UAE local time (GMT+4)
Replication or redistribution in whole or in part is expressly prohibited
without the prior written consent of AME Info FZ LLC / Emap Limited.
Notes and Media Contacts »
About Citi:Citi, the leading global financial services company, has approximately 200 million customer accounts and does business in more than 160 countries and jurisdictions. Citi provides consumers, corporations, governments and institutions with a broad range of financial products and services, including consumer banking and credit, corporate and investment banking, securities brokerage, transaction services, and wealth management.
About Citi Foundation:The Citi Foundation is committed to the economic empowerment and financial inclusion of individuals and families, particularly those in need, in the communities where we work so that they can improve their standard of living. Globally, the Citi Foundation targets its strategic giving to priority focus areas: Microfinance, Enterprise Development, Youth Education and Livelihoods, and Financial Capability and AssetBuilding. The Citi Foundation works with its partners in Microfinance and Enterprise Development to support environmental programs and innovations. Additional information can be found at www.citifoundation.com. About INJAZ-UAE:INJAZ-UAE is a member of Junior Achievement Worldwide, the world's largest non-profit business education organization. INJAZ-UAE is a partnership between the business community, educators and volunteers - working together to inspire and prepare young people to succeed in a global economy. INJAZ-UAE and its regional partner, INJAZ Al-Arab, mobilize the private sector to help create a new generation of motivated and professional graduates by sending corporate volunteers to classrooms across MENA to train youth in success skills, entrepreneurship and financial literacy — narrowing the gap between students and the world of work. The organization targets 11-24 year-old students. INJAZ-UAE is led by a national board of business leaders who share a common ideal for youth and provide overall direction, funding and good governance.
About JA Worldwide:JA Worldwide is the world's largest organization committed to inspiring and preparing young people to succeed in a global economy. Now in its 90th year, JA Worldwide provides hands-on, experiential learning in financial literacy, entrepreneurship, and work readiness to nearly 10 million students annually.
With 510 local offices in 123 countries - and an extensive network of partners from the private and public sectors - JA Worldwide mobilizes a global force of business volunteers to teach in-school and after-school programs that give students the tools they need today, to succeed tomorrow. These programs show young people how to generate wealth and effectively manage it, how to create jobs, which make their communities more robust, and how to apply entrepreneurial thinking to the workplace.
Students put these lessons into action, and help strengthen their communities.
Contact:Haneen AweidahAccount ExecutiveD :
+971(2) 4472805F :
+971(2) 4472908
Disclaimer »
Articles in this section are primarily provided directly by the companies
appearing or PR agencies which are solely responsible for the content. The
companies concerned may use the above content on their respective web sites
provided they link back to http://www.ameinfo.com
Any opinions, advice, statements, offers or other information expressed in
this section of the AMEinfo.com Web site are those of the authors and do
not necessarily reflect the views of AME Info FZ LLC / Emap Limited. AME Info FZ LLC / Emap Limited is
not responsible or liable for the content, accuracy or reliability of any
material, advice, opinion or statement in this section of the
AMEinfo.com Web site.
For details about submitting your stories, please
read the guide - all content published is
subject to our terms and conditions
Events Directory
- Filter by Country -
Bahrain
Egypt
Iran
Iraq
Jordan
Kuwait
Lebanon
Oman
Palestine
Qatar
Syria
Saudi Arabia
United Arab Emirates
Yemen
See all 0 events this monthNo events this month
Organise your events diary by accessing the region's biggest directory of business events in the region
Organising an event? List it for free »
Newsletters
Stay informed with timely insight, analysis and news direct to your inbox
Subscribe to our range of e-newsletters
Company news »
Industry news »
Country business news »
Business Directory
More than 235,000 business people visit the AMEInfo Business Directory every week -
start growing your customer base today by listing your company details.
List your company details for FREE in the region's biggest online directory »
Access company information for 14 countries in the Middle East for FREE
Latest Jobs
CORPORATE / ECM LAWYER - 3-6, DUBAI
Tax free
LITIGATION - 2+, DUBAI
Tax free
Browse all jobs »
News Alerts
Track your competitors and spot market opportunities.
Get Watchlist news alerts on industry or individual company news, straight to your Inbox
What are Watchlists? »
Register / log in to set up Watchlists »
Tools
AMEInfo tools:
Weather Forecast
See what the weather is forecast to be like for your area
Currency Converter
Track the latest foreign exchange rates across the major global currencies
Current World Time
Find clients' business hours across global time zones
Travel Visa Requirements
Check all visas requirements when booking business travel trips
Broadband Checker
How does your broadband compare?
Businesses for Sale
Find a business opportunity
AME Info Services
RSS Feeds
Newsletters
Mobile
Alerts
Industries
Aviation
Banking
Education
Energy, oil and gas
Executive motoring
Finance and economy
Healthcare
Manufacturing and industry
Media and advertising
Real estate
Retail
Technology
Telecoms
Tourism and hospitality
Special reports
Events coverage
Country News
Bahrain news
Jordan news
Kuwait news
Qatar news
Saudi Arabia news
UAE news
Middle East news
Country guides
News Releases
Appointments
Company news
Event news
Research and studies
Latest news articles
Video & Audio
Latest videos
Latest audio
Business tools
Travel Visa Requirements
Jobs
White papers library
Businesses for sale
Currency converter
Current world time
E-mail alerts
Media center
Online parcel tracking
Weather forecast
Mobile services
Top 25 business sites
Broadband checker
About Us
Post a Press Release
Advertising & Sponsorship
Superbrands
ABC ELECTRONIC
© 1996 - 2011 AME Info FZ LLC / Emap Limited. All rights reserved.
Advertising | Contact | Content | Corporate | Feedback | Privacy Statement | Terms of Service | Featured sites | Web Feeds
Industry News
Finance & Economy
IT & Telecoms
Energy & Renewables
Real Estate & Construction
Transport & Tourism
Media & Marketing
World News
+ Other Industries
Education
Executive Motoring
Healthcare
Manufacturing & Industry
Retail
Country News
United Arab Emirates
Saudi Arabia
Qatar
Kuwait
Egypt
Bahrain
Jordan
Lebanon
Oman
Iran
Middle East
Abu Dhabi Khalifa Port due to open...
Abu Dhabi Ports Co (ADPC) has said the arrival of the first batch of Super Post Panamax Ship to Shore (STS) container cranes at Khalifa Port, Wam has...
Read more »
More News
Park Regis enters Middle East market...
Adobe launches Photoshop software for...
Oman's Galfar wins major...
Quick Company Search
All
Directory
Events
News
Audio
Video
Search
Press Releases
Appointments
Event News
Research & Studies
Company Directory
WETEX 2012 to be the largest yet
During a press conference held on Thursday, 1st March, 2012, at Grand Hyatt hotel, Dubai Electricity and Water Authority (DEWA) unveiled its latest...
Read more »
More News
WETEX 2012 to be the largest yet
Zain Group holds its strategy meeting...
Royal Jordanian flights operating as...
Featured Events See all featured events »
Arabian Power and Water Summit 2012 »
March 5 - 8, 2012
Dubai Airshow »
November 13 - 17, 2011
Middle East Project Finance 2012 »
February 26 - 28, 2012
Gulf Real Estate »
September 27 - 29, 2011
All Upcoming Events See the events calendar »
Dubai Lynx »
March 4, 2012
Social Media Communications and PR Seminar »
March 4, 2012
Social Media Strategy for Communications and PR »
March 4, 2012
Communication Strategy Design and Development »
March 4, 2012
Video
Latest Video
Aviation
Business and Finance
Executive Opinions
IT, Internet and Telcos
Luxury Lifestyle
Motoring and Test Drive
Property Report
Retail, Leisure and Sport
Technology Insight
Travel and Tourism
Audio
Latest Audio
Business and Finance
Conferences and Exhibitions
Entertainment and Leisure
Executive Views
Real Estate and Construction
Technology and Techno News
Travel and Executive Breaks
Podcasting
Lufthansa Technik - no concerns over A380 cracks in the wings »
An insight into the maintenance of the giant Airbus A380 from the perspective of Lufthansa Technik and their facilities in Germany for not only the...
TravelWise pt 1 - Etihad World Leading Airline, EU carbon tax and route expansions for Gulf carriers »
TravelWise with Phil Blizzard and the latest regional travel industry news which includes global success at the World Travel Awards for regional...
Travelwise pt 2 - Tourism opportunities in South America with Emirates Holidays »
TravelWise with Phil Blizzard and Travel Talk with Marco Heinrich, Regional Manager Destination Development Europe & The Americas looks at the...
Quick Job Search
Select your Job Sector
Administration/Support Services
Agriculture
Architecture / Design
Automotive
Aviation
Banking
Construction
Consultancy
Defence
Education
Energy
Engineering
Environment & Waste Mgmt
Finance
FMCG
Government
Healthcare
Hospitality
HR
IT / Online
Legal
Leisure & Travel
Manufacturing
Marketing, Advertising & PR
Media
Mining & Quarrying
Non-Profit / Charity
Petrochemicals
Pharmaceutical
Power & Water
Real Estate
Recruitment
Retail
Sales
Telecommunications
Trade
Transport / Logistics
Select your Location
United Arab Emirates
Dubai
Abu Dhabi
Fujairah
Ajman
Ras Al Khaimah
Sharjah
Umm Al Quwain
Algeria
Bahrain
Egypt
Iran
Iraq
Jordan
Kuwait
Lebanon
Libya
Morocco
Oman
Palestine, occ. territory
Qatar
Saudi Arabia
Sudan
Syria
Tunisia
Yemen
Rest of World
Contract Type
Permanent
Contract
Temporary
Post Your Jobs »
Search
Latest Jobs View All »
CORPORATE / ECM LAWYER - 3-6, DUBAI
Tax free
LITIGATION - 2+, DUBAI
Tax free
CORPORATE - 1-3, ABU DHABI
1170
LITIGATION - 1-2, DUBAI
Tax free
COMMERCIAL LITIGATION - 10+, DUBAI
Tax free
Account Manager
Kuwait
KWD 1,800 - 2,200 Per Month
Country Guides
United Arab Emirates
Saudi Arabia
Qatar
Kuwait
Egypt
Bahrain
Jordan
Lebanon
Oman
Iraq
Iran
Syria
Yemen
Palestine
Travel Visa Requirements
Current World Time
Currency Converter
Kuwait Country Guide
The Emirate of Kuwait is situated a the head of the Persian Gulf, and is bordered to the South by the Al Hasa desert region of Saudi Arabia, and Iraq which has a narrow exit to the port of Umm Qasr before the territory of Iran
