Set-Cookie: SERVERID=; Expires=Thu, 01-Jan-1970 00:00:01 GMT; path=/
Cache-control: private
President Barack Obama Talks 'Stronger Fathers, Stronger Families' Initiative
| Essence.com
magazine
newsletter
e-rewards
community
sign in | sign up
Essence
Celebrity
Celebrity Spotlight
All-Access
Coffee Talk
Red Carpet
TV Recap
Obama Watch
First Lady Diary
Get Lifted
Fashion
Celebrity Style
Street Style
Lust List
First Lady Style
Fashion Week
Beauty
Great Beauty
Beauty Beat
Beauty All-Access
Ask the Experts
Makeover Magic
Hair
Hot Hair
Hair Street Style
Hair Beat
Hairstyle File
Makeover Magic
Love
Bridal Bliss
Eye Candy
Dating
Sex
Girlfriends
Just Engaged
Point-of-View
Real Talk
Chic Busy Mom
Modern Day Matchmaker
Plus Size Model in the City
Write or Die Chick
Girl's Best Friend
Celebrate!
Videos
Photos
Festival
Attend
Artists
News
Videos
Merchandise
Sponsors
Contact
Subscribe
Get your tickets for EMF today!
See who attended Black Women in Hollywood!
Get ESSENCE on your tablet!
Community
Facebook
Twitter
RSS
Mobile
Newsletter
Home
Celebrity
Obama Watch
Plus Size Model in the City: Everybody Ain't…Celeb Cam: Twitter Pictures of the Week, March 1Must-See: Jennifer Hudson & Ne-Yo's 'Think…Coffee Talk: Is Tupac Heading to Broadway?Go There Thursdays: Adepero Oduye's Sunny Yellow…Whitney Houston Graces the April Issue of ESSENCEReal Talk: Let 50 Cent Grow UpStreet Style Hair: All Things Natural Hair Care
Robin Thick Was Arrested For WHAT?!Was Whitney Houston Preparing For Death?Are Bobby Brown and Cissy Houston Fighting?Is Chaka Khan Upset With Clive Davis Over Whitney?5 Most Embarrassing Moments For Black People Does Actor Brian White Hate Black Women?
1.
Viola Davis' Natural Hair Wins Big
2.
Viola Davis Steps Out in Natural Hair
3.
My Baby, My Choice
4.
Are Apologies a Sign of Weakness?
5.
Hair Icons: Then & Now
Previous Article
Next Article
Friday, June 17, 2011 | 1:54 PM
President Obama's Father's Day Gift to You and Your Dad
By Mavis Baah
President Barack Obama wears several different hats, but he says his most important role is being a father to Malia, 12, and Sasha, 10. Raised by a single mom, the President has always been vocal about how important it is for men to step up as fathers, particularly in the African-American community. The White House is acknowledging the negative impact a father’s absence has on children, and that even those fathers who are active in their children’s lives sometimes need support. This week, the White House kicked off the “Strong Fathers, Strong Families” initiative to make this time of the year special for dads:Discounts:The White House teamed up with several organizations including local bowling alleys, the WNBA, LivingSocial and Groupon to offer discounts for certain events so that fathers can spend more quality time with their families. Check out this weekend’s zoo discount at http://www.aza.org/fathersday/.Special screenings:As a part of the First Lady’s Joining Forces movement, major movie studios including Warner Brothers and Disney will host movie screenings for military families throughout the year. Yesterday, military dads and their kids joined the President for a screening of "Cars 2."Spotlight:Through the “Champions of Change” program, the White House will honor 12 dads from around the country who are committed to providing for their children and positively impacting their communities. From the Heart: The President penned an op-ed in People magazine that described his relationship with his children. He wrote, “I've learned that children don't just need us physically present, but emotionally available – willing to listen and pay attention and participate in their daily lives.”President Obama knows that one of the best ways to encourage fathers to take responsibility is to set an example. He connects with his daughters by eating dinner with his family most nights of the week, and even serving as an assistant coach for Sasha’s basketball team. Visit fatherhood.gov for more information about the White House’s new initiative.
Related Stories
President Obama on Being the Father He Never Had Obama Watch: President Speaks at Missouri Memorial President Obama Delivers Father's Day Message, Says 'No More Kids' President Obama on Malia Growing Up
Filed Under: Obama Watch
add comment...
« Previous Entry
Obama Watch: First Couple Takes a Stroll
Next Entry »
President Obama Delivers Father's Day Message, Says 'No More Kids'
Add Your Comment
New Readers
Returning
First time commenter? A confirmation email wil be sent to you after you post your comment.
Name:
E-mail:
Members enter your email and password.
E-mail:
Password:
Forgot your Password?
Your comments:
Please check your inbox ... your comment will not appear until you have confirmed your identity via email.
Receive Essence Newsletter
Please keep your comments relevant to this blog entry.Email addresses are never displayed, but they are required to confirm your comments.
When you enter your name and email address, you'll be sent a link to confirm your comment, and a password. To leave another comment, just use that password.
To create a live link, simply type the URL (including http://) or email address and we will make it a live link for you. You can put up to 3 URLs in your comments. Line breaks and paragraphs are automatically converted — no need to use <p> or <br /> tags.
advertisement
Orange Crush
EMF 2012 performer Estelle attends BET's Rip the Runway in New York City.
Read more...
@Kandi
RT @4KwameWaters: There's nothing like some good ole HATERS to confirm that you're on your way#keepmoving--True!
@bevysmith
This isn't okay and WHY did he think it was? http://t.co/fd8lbpmg
@bevysmith
Mickey Rourke looks like he was in a knife fight and needed reconstructive surgery, that's not ok!
@bevysmith
Ladies keep your daughters heads in the books, keep them out the mirror,
if they are consumed by their looks they will be lead astray!
Upload a photo and give yourself a makeover!Click here to try it out »
advertisement
advertisement
GlobalGrind
Andrew Breitbart Dead At 43 (DETAILS)Tim Tebow & Taylor Swift's Dinner Date Night Revealed! (DETAILS)Pass Or Fail: Measuring The Success Of Past XXL Freshman Class Rappers (LIST)
huffpost black voices
PHOTOS: The 'Beauty In Black' ProjectThandie Goes Au Natural For Her Daughters (PHOTOS)Last Night In New York City: Dance Theatre Of Harlem's 'Vision Gala'
Hello Beautiful
Rihanna Tweets Sexy Photos From Esquire UK Shoot!Is Willow Smith Crying Out For Help?Did J.Lo Have A Wardrobe Malfunction At The Oscars? [VIDEO]
real black network
Breaking Newz: Man Found Dead In Front Of Rick Ross HouseBoomerang 2.0: Toni Braxton
