Content-Length: 41585
About Jose-Filipe Lima | GolfLink.com
GolfLink
Track. Learn. Improve.
Follow Us:
Home
Golf Courses
Course Finder
Yardage Maps
Course Flyovers
GolfLink Top 100
Driving Ranges
Mini Golf
Tournaments
Tee Times
Golf Travel
Top Golf Destinations
Resorts
Travel Tips
Golf Vacations
International Golf
Golf Real Estate
Tips & Lessons
Instruction & Techniques
Beginners
Golf Tips
Instructors
Golf Fitness
Golf Terms
Golf Rules
Great Shots
My Game
My Profile
Mobile
My Yardage Maps
My Handicap
My Rounds
My Stats
My Videos
My Courses
Blog
Photos
Messages
Friends
Golf Gear & Reviews
Golfers
Sign In
Register
Golf Link
Golf Tips & Lessons
Golf Players & Coaches
About Jose-Filipe Lima
About Jose-Filipe Lima
By Matthew Fortuna
Jose Filipe Lima is a professional golfer who has played prominently on the European Tour and the Challenge Tour. Known for his early successes, charisma and good looks, Lima became a professional in 2002, though he has never reached any considerable level of success in the United States or the PGA. With four professional wins, Lima has won as an individual and has been recruited for various teams and championships over his career.
Golf Tee Times
Golf Travel Packages
Golf Resorts
Car Rentals
Golf Vacations
Golf Retail Stores
Flight Deals
Discount Golf Clubs
Golf Swing Improvement
Sponsored Links
Early Years
Lima was born on Nov. 26, 1981, in Versailles, France. His parents introduced him to golf at early age, and he hit his first golf balls as a 2-year-old growing up on the course at the Saint-Nom-la-Breteche Golf Club, the home course of the Trophee Lancome golf tournament. His first golf club was made by his father, who had a large influence on teaching him the game in his early years.
Beginning in Golf
Though both parents are Portuguese, Lima and his family spent his early years in France. He entered formal golf training when he attended the golf school at Saint-Nom-la-Breteche as a 7-year-old. It was at this point that his interest in golf escalated to a true passion, and he and his parents began to focus much of his time on the sport.
Early Career
By the end of 2001, the 20-year-old Lima had escalated his game to the top spot on the French amateur scene. He turned professional early the following year for the beginning of the season. He golfed for France for the first three years of his career, using the name Jose Filipe. His first professional post was on the Alps Tour in central Europe, where he moved up to the No. 4
ranking by the next year.
Success
His high ranking in the Alps Tour earned him a spot on the more-coveted Challenger Tour for the beginning of the 2004 season. Though he had success on the Alps Tour, he gained his first tournament win at the Segura Viudas Challenge of Spain. Soon after he began to represent Portugal, instead of France, on the tour and re-adopted his birth name. He went on to win the AA St. Amer Open in 2004.
Rise in the World Rankings
After his 2004 success, Lima rose to be the 73rd-ranked player in the European Tour classification and became the highest-ranked Portuguese player ever in 2005. His play in two years on the European Tour earned him his tour card for 2007, and his other wins over this time included the 2004 and 2005 Masters on the Alps Tour. He has also tied for 70th at the PGA Open Championship and been a member of Continental Europe for the St. Andrews Trophy and played with Portugal at the WGC-World Cup in 2005.
About The Author
Matthew Fortuna is a full-time freelance writer with a journalism degree from Wayne State University, living in the Detroit metropolitan area.
He has written about a wide range of topics across varying publications, including Demand Studios, wiseGEEK.com and Suite101.com, among others. He holds a Bachelor of Arts in journalism from Wayne State University.
Photo Credits
Wikimedia commons
Not a Member?
Join Now - It's FREE!
Member Sign In
Email Address
Password
Keep me logged in
Forgot your password?
Nearby Tee Time HOT Deals!
Thursday, Mar 01 to Tuesday, Mar 06
Related Articles
About Jose Manuel Lara
Spanish golfer Jose Manuel Lara was born in Valencia on May 21, 1977. H...
About Gregory Havret
Gregory Havret is a professional golfer from France who turned pro in 1...
About Felipe Aguilar
Felipe Aguilar is a professional golfer from Chile who has had an exten...
About Paul Broadhurst
Paul Broadhurst was born in Atherstone, Warwickshire, England, on Augus...
About Taco Remkes
Taco Remkes is a professional golfer from the Netherlands. He has playe...
View All Related Articles
Video of the Day
A Rotary Swing Plane
By Sandy LaBauve
The club should work around your body to form a circular swing plane Watch the Video Now
Article of the Day
Rotator Cuff Exercises for a Torn Rotator Cup
Exercise is always the first option when the muscles around the rotator cuff are injured or torn...
Read full article
Top Blog Post
Bay Hill Proves Tough Test
Arnold Palmer is known to prefer a thorough test of golf.
As host of the invitational that bears his name, Palmer, like Jack Nicklaus at the Memorial, is the guiding influence over the course set up at Bay Hill and he wasn’t disappointed in giving players a fair dose of what the average hack sees ... More
Advertise†
About Us†
FAQ†
Privacy Policy†
Terms of Use†
Contact GolfLink†
Ad Choices
Site Map
Copyright © 1996-2012, Demand Media. All rights reserved.
† Requires Javascript
GolfLink™ is a trademark or registered trademark of Demand Media, Inc. in the United States
