X-Pad: avoid browser bug
Main lectures 42 microsymposium
Main lectures
1 2 3
4 5 6 7 8 9 10
ML01
CHEMILUMINESCENCE COMBINED WITH THERMAL ANALYSIS FOR
STUDYING POLYMER OXIDATION
N.C. BILLINGHAMa, P.K. FEARONa,
M.N. GRIGGa, S.W. BIGGERb
aDepartment of Chemistry, University of Sussex,
Brighton, BN1 9QJ, UK
bVictoria University of Technology, P.O. Box 14428,
Melbourne 8001, Australia
Because of the effectiveness of modern stabilisers,
accelerated ageing tests must be used to evaluate their
performance. Oven ageing testing is the most reliable but is time
consuming. Differential Scanning Calorimetry (DSC) has been
widely used for measuring oxidation induction times (OIT) but is
usually (mis)used at temperatures above the melting point of the
polymer.
Many polymers emit light (chemiluminescence, CL) during
oxidation. CL offers an alternative method to monitor oxidation,
its advantage being very high sensitivity. CL imaging of
oxidative degradation has recently been made possible by the
development of low noise, high sensitivity cameras, which allow
multiple sampling, reducing experimental times and cost. Imaging
also allows study of inhomogeneity.
In collaboration with Mettler Toledo, we have combined CL
measurement with DSC in a single instrument. The combination has
obvious advantages where oxidation occurs simultaneously with
other thermal events, e.g. melting, since the CL is sensitive
only to oxidation. CL in inert atmospheres can easily detect the
presence of peroxides at concentrations well below those
detectable by DSC.
Measurements on unstabilised samples of polypropylene show
good correlation of CL with heat flow data, with kinetics
consistent with the Russell mechanism for CL. Studies of the
formation of carbonyl groups show that the relation of CL to C=O
content is also consistent with the Russell mechanism.
For stabilised samples OITs measured by both CL and DSC are
similar. It is easier to operate the CL at very high sensitivity
and CL can easily detect OITs above 70 h. Increased oxygen
pressures allow analysis by CL under conditions where DSC signals
are noisy. There is good correlation between CL values measured
by single-sample CL and imaging detection.
Multiple detection needs some care in order to avoid cross
sample contamination but allows major economy of equipment time.
Some applications of the DSC/CL method will be discussed,
including the assessment of stabiliser performance and the
correlation of OIT and oven ageing.
ML02
RADIATION AGEING OF POLYMER MATERIALS
J.L. GARDETTE, A. RIVATON
Laboratoire de Photochimie Moléculaire et Macromoléculaire,
UMR CNRS 6505, Université Blaise Pascal, 63177 Aubière cedex
France
The modifications of structure and properties of polymeric
materials resulting of the ageing initiated by ionising
radiations have been a subject of interest as soon as nuclear
programs began. Exposure of polymers to radiative environments
causes indeed a deterioration of their properties. It has been
approximately 50 years since researchers first began studying the
effects of ionising radiations on polymers. The main
radiation-induced changes consist in scissions and/or
crosslinking of the macromolecular chains, formation of gaseous
products such as hydrogen or low molecular weight hydrocarbons,
accumulation of oxidation products, loss and/or formation of
unsaturations.
Among the numerous studies devoted to the radiochemical ageing
of polymers, many of them report on the mechanism of the -initiated degradation of polyolefins.
This presentation concerns the behaviour of EPDM copolymers,
which are composed of ethylene (PE), propylene (PP) and diene
monomer (5-ethylidene 2-norbornene (ENB) in this study). These
polymers find numerous applications and are often used as wire
insulators or joints. If the mechanisms of photo- and
thermo-oxidations of EPDM can be considered as well known, the
radiation induced degradation of these polymers has only received
little attention.
On the basis of a recent study involving the identification of
the various products that are formed, a mechanism accounting for
the radiochemical degradation of EPDM has been proposed, with a
peculiar attention given to the role played by oxygen and by the
ENB termonomer. Two main processes are involved in the
radiooxidation of EPDM. The random -radiolysis
of the polymer provides a constant source of macroalkyl radicals
mainly formed on ethylene units. The secondary radicals so formed
are likely to initiate a selective oxidation of the polymer
through free-radicals reactions involving the abstraction of
labile hydrogen atoms. In particular, the decomposition of
hydroperoxydes and the degradation of the ENB moieties, this
latter being the most oxidisable site and the source of
crosslinking, may result from hydrogen abstraction by radicalar
species.4
ML03
OVERVIEW AND PARTICULARITIES IN DEGRADATION OF POLYOLEFINS
DERIVED FROM FISCHER-TROPSCH SYNTHESIS
I. TINCUL
Sasol Technology, PO Box 1, Sasolburg, 1947, South Africa
Polyolefins are without doubt the largest volume family of
commercially polymers and a vast literature is dedicated to this
field in the last half of century. The most complex pool of
monomers is available from the Fischer Tropsch process that is
gaining momentum as a major market source. When compared with
ethylene oligomerization processes the main advantage of the
Fischer Tropsch process is the production of odd carbon number
linear and branched olefins that showed new application
possibilities in both the polyethylene and polypropylene
families. We prepared a large number of new polyolefins with
Fischer Tropsch derived alpha olefins that have particular
microstructures and morphology according to the type of branch,
length of branch and number of branches / 1000 carbons.
It is known that steric factors may play an important role in
polyolefin degradation and that tertiary carbon is labile to
oxidative attack. A decrease in crystallinity with the increase
of comonomer content may favour auto-oxidation due to higher
oxygen absorbtion. Very little literature on degradation of
polyolefins prepared with Fisher Tropsch derived olefins is
available. In this paper is presented and discussed some
particularities on the degradation of polyolefins Fischer Tropsch
derived.
The manifestation of oxidation weather by temperature or aging
concerning polymer appearance as discoloration, loss of optical
properties, loss of mechanical properties and surface cracks were
observed. This behaviour was similar to known polyolefins.
Oxidation induction time as measured by DSC varies with the
number of branch and length of branch introduced in the polymer
chain by a certain comonomer. The thermal stability was measured
also by thermogravimetry and compared with the polymer structure
and thermal behaviour. The degradation temperature increases with
an increase of carbon number of the comonomer. Investigation for
a series of ethylene co-polymers and ter-polymers with linear and
branched alpha olefins showed an increase of pre-exponential
factor as a function of carbon number in an Arrhenius type
equation. A decomposition kinetic study showed that the
activation and the rate constant is also related to the size and
type of branch. Rheological investigation showed a similar
pattern. It was concluded that while polyolefins obtained with
Fischer Tropsch derived olefins showed a behaviour similar with
known polyolefins, particularities in degradation does exist and
are related to the number and type of branch.
ML04
ESSENTIAL CRITERIA FOR THE SUCCESSFUL RECOVERY OF PLASTICS
N. MAYNE
Association of Plastics Manufacturers in Europe, Avenue E. Van
Nieuwenhuyse 4, Box 3, B – 1160 Brussels
E-mail address: neil.mayne apme.org
Of the many options for recovery of plastics at the
end-of-life, mechanical recycling is in principle the preferred
route. There is an increasing understanding of the mechanisms,
which affect the degradation of polymers or physical property
enhancement by increasing their compatibility with other
polymers. While many laboratory scale experiments demonstrate the
potential for high levels of recycling, in practice the levels
achieved on an industrial scale with post-consumer plastics can
be viewed as disappointingly low. In addition to economic
considerations, this is because there are a limited number of
applications allowing closed loop recycling and there is a
mismatch between the supply of recyclate and demand from the
market. New developments will increase the potential, but such
recycling will nevertheless remain limited.
Feedstock recycling technologies offer versatility and many
large scale processes have been developed and demonstrated.
Logistics and supply commitments are key factors in determining
viability. To date, fully commercial plants are only operational
in Germany and Japan. A number of active developments are,
however, currently underway in a number of European countries.
Energy recovery will become an increasingly important recovery
option as it is also being stimulated by restrictions on the
landfilling of waste. Even if the full potential of mechanical
recycling were to be realized, the major part of total plastics
waste would still be available for use as an alternative fuel.
This means that with the expected growth of plastics, this
represents an increasingly important source of energy, equivalent
to millions of tonnes of imported oil each year.
The challenge for the successful recovery of plastics is to
identify and use the optimum combination of options, underpinned
by continuing innovation in process, product and recovery
technologies in order to increase the resource efficiency of
products throughout their whole life-cycle.
ML05
OPTIMISAZION OF PROCESSING CONDITIONS IN THE RECYCLING OF
POLYCONDENSATION POLYMERS
F.P. LA MANTIA, R. SCAFFARO
Dipartimento di Ingegneria Chimica dei Processi e dei
Materiali
Università di Palermo, Viale delle Scienze, 90128, Palermo,
Italy
Mechanical recycling of polymers is a very complex and
difficult process because repetitive melt processing can lead to
severe degradation of these materials with subsequent
deterioration of all the properties. For condensation polymers,
the degradation rate is much faster in the presence of water that
induces depolymerization reactions, having also a synergistic
effect with thermomechanical degradation and exalting the loss of
properties. Indeed, a careful drying prior to processing can
drastically reduce the degradation phenomena but increasing the
complexity of the process and its cost.
The aim of this work is to study the effect of the
reprocessing of some polycondensation polymers with and in
absence of water. Moreover, the possibility to process wet
polymer in the presence of proper stabilisers to avoid the drying
step has been studied too.
The materials chosen for the study have been polyamide 6,
polycarbonate and polyethyleneterephtalate.
The results indicate that for the three different systems
considered, the wet processing causes, as expected, a strong
reduction of the mechanical properties and of the molecular
weight, as evidenced by rheological and thermal measurements.
If a degassing stage is added to the processing apparatus, a
certain improvement of the properties is observed. This can be
explained in terms of humidity removing with consequent reduction
of the hydrolytic chain scission.
When nitrogen flow is added to the degassing, both humidity
and oxygen are practically eliminated from the system, and a
further improvement of the properties is observed. This can be
explained with the further reduction of the humidity but it also
suggests that degradation mechanism involves reactions.
The presence small amounts (500 ppm) of a particular
antioxidant has a positive effect in all the cases. In
particular, the adding of antioxidant can substitute the drying
stage as it is able to protect the macromolecules from
hydrolysis. This behaviour can be explained considering that this
antioxidant is more prone to hydrolysis than the polymer, thus
removing the water from the melt and decreasing the degradation
rate. Such consideration has been proved using different
antioxidants with different tendency to hydrolysis: using
antioxidants with theoretical reduced hydrolysis tendency caused
a parallel reduction of the protection with consequent loss of
properties.
The positive effect of the presence of the antioxidant has
been also verified for several reprocessing steps (up to five).
The results indicate that the presence of the antioxidant still
have positive effects also after several recycling operation.
It can be concluded that the mechanical recycling of
condensation polymers can be effectuated with practically any
loss of properties if an adequate removal of humidity from the
system is performed. A valid alternative to the complex and
expensive pre-drying operation can be the adding of antioxidants
that undergo hydrolysis in vice of the polymers.
ML06
FEEDSTOCK RECYCLING OF PLASTICS IN JAPAN
A.OKUWAKI
Tohoku University, Graduate School of Environmental Studies,07
Aoba, Sendai, 980-8579
Various commercial plants for feedstock recycling of waste
plastics have started up in Japan. In 1999, only Niigata
liquefaction plant was operated. Now they are liquefaction at
Sapporo, and Mikasa, Blast Furnace application by NKK, Coke Oven
application by Nippon Steel Corp., Gasification by EBARA-UBE, and
Glycolysis of PET bottles by Teijin. Separated PET bottles are
now used as raw material for polyester fibers, 30,000t/y in
capacity from April, 2002, and the two commercial plants for the
Bottle to Bottle recycling are under construction for the first
time in the world.
Clearly this is related to the practical implementation of the
Containers and Packaging Recycling Law carried out in 1997 for
PET bottles and in 2000 for the other plastics. This law affords
allocating the cost for feedstock recycling of waste plastics
separated only in homes. It has created attractive markets and
thus, they say that the separated waste plastics are even in
short supply in Japan. Recovery of PET bottles increases
successfully since 1997, but that of plastics increases
dramatically since 2000 when the law has carried out.
On the other hand, their cost for recycling decreases
gradually. At present, their recycling fees are quite expensive
compared to the cost for treatment of industrial waste plastics.
However, it is expected that the cost will continue to drop. This
trend suggests that the active competitions among various
techniques proceed including the improvement of collection
system. This situation creates big chances for the world
recycling technologies in the Japanese market and refine
necessarily both techniques and logistic systems.
The Home Appliances Recycling Law came into full force in
April 2001 is to be revised within a few years. In such process,
they say, not only the recycling of their plastics cases, but
also that of printed circuit boards are introduced to elevate the
recycling degree.
In addition, the Law for Recycling of End-of-Life Vehicles has
passed through the Parliament, July 2002. They say, an average
cost per car will be 20,000 Yen, namely 151Euro. Clearly this law
should proceed the recycling of automotive shredder residue.
These environmental policy of Japanese Government are sure to
promote more the recycling of waste plastics in Japan
