Australian Gifts & Homewares News & Suppliers Directory
» 2011 » October
NEWS INDEX
Submit News Article
News Headlines
Trade Fairs
DIRECTORY INDEX
New Sites
Link To Us
Suggest Listing
Register
Login
Categories
Coming Events
Home Makeover
New Products
Retailer Resources
Retailing News
Shopping
Suppliers
Wholesalers Resources
Recent Posts
EcoSleep Australia
Hostile Bacon
Hangings Wall Art
Au Design
CMP World
Latest News
50 plus new product designs at the Gifts Fair in Homebush by Australian Gifts & Homewares Wholesalers Akcent Decor.
New sourcing site purely for retailers & corporate buyers as Australian Wholesalers Directory wholesalerslist.com.au launches
Newsletters
Subscribe/Unsubscribe
Coming Events
Events are coming soon, stay tuned!
Online Shopping
Visit store Coastaldesigns.com.au
SUPPLIERS DIRECTORY
Directory Index
ONLINE SHOPPING
- Gifts
- Gifts for Her
- Gifts For Men
- Homewares
- Fashion & Accessories
- Jewellery
GIFTWARE
- Fashion
- General
- Themed
- Souvenirs
- Weddings
- Jewellery
- Gift Services & Florists
HOMEWARES
- General
- Themed
- Artworks
- Furniture
- Lighting
- Mirrors & Frames
- Soft Furnishings
Outdoor Products
Home Services
Party Plan
Wholesalers
Agents
Retailer Resources
New Listings
Archive for October, 2011
« Previous Entries
Next Entries »
18
Oct
FreeChoiceWorld Shopping
Online Shopping with Free Shipping Worldwide – Android Phones to Laptops – Mini Dresses to Leather Jackets + much moreOnline shopping with free shipping worldwide ,shop from a selection of, electronics, computers, Cameras, tools & hardware, Swimwear, iphones, Leather Jackets, Camcorders, Cell Phones,iPads, Android Tablets, Laptops, Netbooks, Womens clothing, mens clothing, Media centres, Digital cameras,Sensuals, housewares, sporting goods, apparel & accessories, shoes, jewelry, beauty & personal care, Baby Products & just about anything else.
Posted in Shopping by: Admin
Comments Off
13
Oct
70 Percent of Australia Post’s Parcels from Online Shopping
Australia is experiencing consisten growth in online shopping sales as evidenced by the growth in freight from online shopping. According to Australia Posts comments in an article in the Courier mail volumes are increasing by 5-10% pa.
Extract from the article”
Queensland parcel operations manager Seth Grantley said 70 percent of Australia Post’s parcel business was generated from online shopping.
“And this area is continuing to grow as customers increasingly go online to do their shopping,” he said.
“In the Brisbane area, parcel volumes increased by 5 percent over the past 12 months.”
Mr Grantley said parcels were a major part of Australia Post’s future success, and a key platform of its business transformation strategy.
“Online purchasing in Australia is forecast to grow from around $27 billion last year, to almost $37 billion by 2013,” he said.
Slacks Creek’s Ali Norrie believes online shopping is the best way to save money.
“I have been shopping online since I can remember, probably since I got my first job in 2004,” she said.
“It was the price that attracted me to online shopping, items were always cheaper than in store and now it’s more about getting things I can’t find in store. Especially outfits, I can get something not many people have.”
Miss Norrie said she used eBay for purchasing make-up from America, cheaper than local stores.
“Usually for shoes and clothes I shop around on different (web)sites in America,” she said. “I haven’t had a problem with sizes, sometimes I take a stab in the dark and if it doesn’t fit, I can give it to someone else.” The 24-year-old accounts assistant said if products were cheaper in stores, she would shop in retail outlets.
“If items were available locally and at the same price, I would shop there, but I don’t feel bad about saving money,” she said.”
For more details see the Courier Mail
Posted in Retailing News by: Admin
Comments Off
10
Oct
Duckprint Pty Ltd
Unique and colourful bed linen is what we’re all about here at Duckprint. Our luxurious fabrics &amp; unique doona cover designs will certainly add some renewed life to your bedroom. We ship Australia wide so make sure you check out our range of linen today
Doona cover designs that stand out from the drab boring stuff that you see in retail outlets right now.
We are a brand new start up fronted by Joey Thomas.
All our product is make from 100% pure cotton in a
thread count of 300 plus.
We sell a range of designs, offering both conservative styles and bold and colourful prints.
We offer great quality bedding at a very reasonable price point.
All our sets include a quilt cover, 2 regular pillows AND two european pillowcases – which is a real bonus.
I wanted to include 4 pillowcases in the standard set because I thought it really made the designs pop.
I hope that these doona cover designs will help add life to people’s bedrooms and give people a chance to express a part of themselves.
Please check out my website to see our huge new range of doona cover designs on offer!
Posted in New Products by: Admin
Comments Off
10
Oct
Retailers Employ cheap Spys
Retailers can now recruit members of the public to spy on their store presentation with an iphone app called field agent. Users of the application can already paying shoppers to provide retailers with in-store intelligence such as competitor pricing or staff performance. Its also a marketing tool as its bringing the field agent into the store to complete a simple task.
Some retailers have already reported success and users say they use its GPS system to find quick jobs in their area when they are out and about.
What is Field Agent?
It’s an app that begins with a Client (who needs information) creating a job requesting specific information via the www.fieldagent.net website. Field Agent then reviews and broadcasts a request to Agents, (iPhone users in the field) who have installed the Field Agent App. Agents use their iPhones to collect and return information and get paid for the service.
Payments can range from $3 to $8, depending on the job’s degree of difficulty.“Now more than ever, companies are looking for ways to efficiently gain field intelligence on products and services,” said Kelly Miller, Co-Founder of Field Agent. “In an economy where unemployment is near record levels, it’s rewarding to be part of an idea that can create income for thousands of people.
Most jobs are in everyday locations where Agents live. Information requested by Clients might include: retail pricing and display information, event images, photos of items for sale and consumer surveys that can be completed anywhere an iPhone can be used.
Field Agent uses the built-in tools of the iPhone to provide accurate and relevant information that is transmitted back to Clients. Agent history, GPS location, time and date stamps and photo confirmations are all ways to ensure data is returned to Clients accurately with verification.
What’s more, Clients and Agents will help us refine the many uses we’ve not even thought of,  said Miller. “We see a lot of potential with this app, where Clients will help us identify new solutions where Field Agents can play a key role in delivering data”.
According to Miller Field Agent is designed to have thousands of Agents ready to gather information and offer feedback on products and services at a moment’s notice. That is a powerful business tool!
”Field Agent is a joint venture between Mill Creek Software and North Star Partnering Group, based in Fayetteville, Arkansas. Agents should visit the Apple App Store
