Horror Comic Book News - Comic Monsters
- Godzilla
Horror Games
Horror Toys
Horror Movies
Home | Account | Community | Comic Book News | Monsters | Horror Comics | Interviews | Reviews | Artist Features | Articles |
Web Comics | Free Comics
Video game news, reviews, articles and more. Dead Space, Left 4 Dead, Resident Evil, Castlevania and more!
Horror and monster toy news, reviews, articles and more. Action figures, bobble heads, model kits, statues and more!
Horror movies news, reviews, articles and more.
Monster Menu
Horror Comics
Comic Book Monsters & Characters
Comic Book News
Comic Articles
Comic Interviews
Comic Reviews
Free Comics
Web Comics
Forums
Submit_News
Contact Staff
Advertise with us!
Sponsors
Horror t-shirts
Horror T-Shirts and
more
Top Monsters
Blade
News
Blade
Forum
Blade
Biography
Ghost
Rider News
Ghost
Rider Forum
Ghost Rider Biography
Werewolf
by Night News
Werewolf
by Night Discussion
Werewolf
by Night Biography
Hellboy News
Hellboy Discussion
Hellboy Biography
Army of Darkness News
Army of Darkness Discussion
Ash Biography
Moon
Knight News
Moon
Knight Discussion
Moon
Knight Biography
Doc
Frankenstein News
Doc
Frankenstein Discussion
Doc
Frankenstein Biography
Hack/Slash News
Hack/Slash Discussion
Hack/Slash Biography
Vampirella News
Vampirella Discussion
Vampirella Biography
The
Living Corpse News
The
Living Corpse Discussion
The
Living Corpse Biography
Marvel
Zombies News
Marvel
Zombies Discussion
Zombie
Spiderman Biography
Michael
Myers News
Michael
Myers Discussion
Michael
Myers Biography
Jason
Voorhees News
Jason
Voorhees Discussion
Jason
Voorhees Biography
The Walking Dead News
The Walking Dead Discussion
Rick from The Walking Dead Biography
Click
here for a complete list of monsters
Godzilla
Posted by TheBigBadWolf on July/24/2007
Godzilla
1st app.- Godzilla # 1
Godzilla was over 100 feet tall and immensely strong and durable. He had a semi-prehensile tail and had human level dexterity in his hands and use of his arms. He was amphibious and could expel radioactive flame from his mouth at will. He demonstrated a near-human level of intelligence and understanding.
He was later mutated into a more amphibious form, and it is not certain how this affected his abilities. He has not be seen to use his radioactive flame in this form.
Godzilla is believed to be a dinosaur who somehow survived in an inert form below the surface of the ocean until the modern era. He is believed to have been mutated by nuclear weapons testing. It is also possible that Godzilla is actually a mutate created by the Deviants of Lemuria, as many of the other giant monsters from his era have been found to be active over several of the last decades. For instance, the Deviants created a race of dinosaurs that dwell in Wakanda.
Godzilla was first seen when he surfaced off the coast of Japan in 1956, during nuclear testing. Dr. Yuriko Takaguchi was present during this testing as a passive resistant and witnessed Godzilla's arrival. Godzilla rampaged through the city of Tokyo on more than one occasion. Other monsters, similarly revived by the nuclear testing, also surfaced and attacked Tokyo, and Godzilla fought several of these creatures.Credit - The Appendix to the Handbook of the Marvel Universe
AppearancesAdd comic books in which this monster has appeared in.New Battle Top ResultsZach RamirezEnter Battle!FriendsEnemies
Related NewsGodzilla Legends #4 preview
An epic single issue story shining a light on another terrifying Toho monster! This issue sees the debut of the one and only Smog Monster -- Hedorah! G-Force is sent to battle the blob-like beast as...Godzilla ongoing series
Godzilla is back... in an all-new ongoing series! Duane Swierczynski and Simon Gane launch this ultimate action-movie blockbuster, ushering in a new era of monster battles. Ex-special forces...Godzilla: Kingdom of Monsters #12 preview
The evil twins are gone. Godzilla lies dormant. The monsters that roam the earth are wounded, battered, exhausted... if mankind has any chance of recovering from this disaster, now is the moment. But...Godzilla: Kingdom of Monsters #11 preview
The twins are back, and they are after the King of Monsters himself! Riding into America on the backs of Battra and Rodan, the evil twins head toward Godzilla in an attempt to enslave the gargantuan...Godzilla Legends #3 preview
It's the next legend focusing on Godzilla's fearsome foes. This time Titanosaurus takes the spotlight! A school for telepathically gifted children is opening and star pupil Tristan is wowing his teachers....
[ Edit this article ]
[ Return to category ]
Purchase Products
All logos and trademarks in this site are property of their respective owner. The comments are property of their posters, all the rest © 2011 Comic Monsters.com.
Web site engine\'s code is Copyright © 2003 by PHP-Nuke. All Rights Reserved. PHP-Nuke is Free Software released under the GNU/GPL
