Betty Belts, Ocean Inspired Jewelry and Accessories Made with Dignity |
beauty
Betty Belts, Ocean Inspired Jewelry and Accessories Made with DignityShop
Collections
DvH Signature Designs
Betty B. Jewelry
Betty Belts
News
Blog
Press
About
Philosophy
Testimonials
Connect
Contact
Wholesale
Subscribe
ArchiveArchive for category: beauty
14 Aug2008
0 Comments
Betty B. and the Twins In Ocean Magazine
Categories: All, beauty, conscious consumerism, fashion, marketing, modeling, ocean, photography, Products, women's surfingAuthor: donnaHow gorgeous is this?
Our favorite twins Sierra and Hailey Partridge featured in the brand new Betty Belts ad in Ocean Magazine, with the insanely beautiful photography of David Pu’u.
It’s too big to show it here, so click on this link to view it full size.
Betty B. in Ocean Magazine
12 Jul2008
1 Comment
Betty B.’s Partridge Twins Featured in Summer Ad Campaign
Categories: All, beauty, fashion, marketing, modeling, ocean, photography, womenAuthor: donnaHere is the Betty B. Summer ’08 ad in Ocean Magazine featuring our own Sierra and Hailey, a.k.a. The Partridge Twins or “Surfing Twins” with the gorgeous photography of David Pu’u. Sierra and Hailey both have an incredibly sexy and natural look in this shoot we did out in the California desert among joshua trees and Hailey even looks like a dead ringer for a young Bo Derek.
If you don’t know Ocean yet, look for it at newsstands everywhere, also Vons, Ralphs, Borders, Barnes and Noble. Click on the cover to see the ad in all its glory.
23 Feb2008
2 Comments
Street Shoot With The Betty Belts Surf Team and Photographer David Pu’u
Categories: All, beauty, modeling, photography, women, women's surfingAuthor: donnaHere are some pictures from a fun little street shoot the Betty Belts Surf Team did here in downtown Ventura with photographer David Pu’u. Six Betty Belt Surf Team riders came together, got dolled up and struck poses. All the girls are wearing Betty B. jewelry and looking HOT!
Betty Belts Team Surfers Strike a Pose. Right to left Sierra Partridge, Jeanette Ortiz, Mary Osborne, Bo Stanley, Hailey Partridge. Mary (center, is wearing my Sula Lariat in pearl black as a necklace and matching Sula bracelet), photo copyright David Pu’u
Mary Osborne on the street with her fish. Photo copyright David Pu’u
Sierra Partridge, Mary Osborne and Hailey Partridge posing with some Air Force dudes who spontaneously joined our street shoot. Photo copyright David Pu’u.
Sierra looking like a rockstar in her zebra dress and the Jeanette recycled glass necklace along with my matching Jeanette bracelet and leather bangles in black and special edition white. Photo copyright David Pu’u
That’s me, Donna, in the front with my girls! I’m wearing the Chelsea Heart necklace. Photo copyright David pu’u
Jeanette is looking way too HOT. Don’t get burned!
Photo copyright David Pu’u
The Betty Belts Surf Team wants you! Hailey on the far right wearing the Adonia belt in black. Photo copyright David Pu’u
I love this shot of Mary and I walking down the street. Photo copyright David Pu’u.
Bo Stanley is looking sweet and stunning in Navy. She is wearing the Silver Ball Necklace and the Open Heart Cuff. My favorite red hoop earrings in my collection are named after Bo, the “Bo” earrings. Photo copyright David Pu’u
Mary’s friend Alex showed up and decided to play. That’s the Betty Bus behind them, my 1961 Chevy Corvair Greenbrier, lookin’ cherry! Photo copyright David Pu’u
It’s always so much fun getting everyone together for a shoot like this.
We’ve done others in the past year that I will try to post soon!
Smiles and Aloha,
Donna
27 Mar2007
7 Comments
Twin Betty Belts Surfers Sierra and Hailey Model For Allure Magazine
Categories: All, beauty, modeling, photography, women's surfingAuthor: donnaRecenty I got an email from 2 Times Square in New York City, home of Conde Nast Publishing, where all the editorial offices for those big glossy magazines are located. It was from a production assistant at Allure Magazine, asking how they could get in touch with two of my team riders, the beautiful and talented twins Sierra and Hailey Partridge.
One thing led to another and within a few weeks the girls were flown down to a shoot on the beach in Southern California to do a piece on Surfing Beauties.
The twins on the Allure Surfing Beauties set with Roxy pro surfer Kassia Meador and the other models.
It was not their first time modeling, they’ve been modeling for Betty Belts, Hobie and O'Neill in exotic places like Maui and The Big Island as well as in their beautiful home in Santa Cruz. But my little company, Betty Belts, was the first sponsor to bring them into the public eye and really help get their careers taking off. The contribution of my absurdly talented husband-to-be, photographer David Pu’u is a key factor. A former pro surfer himself, he has been very supportive of my team riders and women’s surfing. See David’s work and more of the girls on my website www.bettybelts.com.
Hailey Partridge, a surfing beauty ready for a camera.
I asked Sierra and Hailey about their Allure experience and here’s what they had to say along with some snapshots they took from the day.
What you enjoyed most?
Hailey: The shoot with Allure was an amazing experience that I was very fortunate to have experienced. What I enjoyed most about the shoot was what Sierra and I called “the star treatment”. We were picked up from the airport in an Escalade, we stayed at the Ritz Carlton (and got to order lots of room service!), we got manicures and pedicures from a professional manicurist who does Hollywood stars’ nails and our hair styled by a hair stylist flown all the way from London. They had two huge trailers for us to relax in and they delivered us catered breakfast and lunch. Overall, it was an amazing experience, everything they did for us and the other models was a little extravagant but I wasn’t complaining! I also really enjoyed getting to meet Kassia Meador (Roxy surfer) as well as the other two models, Katarina Lyerly and Megan Abrigo, they were all so friendly and were very genuine and down-to-earth girls.
Hailey Partridge getting the “star treatment” in the hair and makeup trailer: a rubdown with body oil.
What you learned?
Sierra: I learned that there is so much work that goes into a magazine. This was just one article and it took a month to plan and about 30 people behind the scenes to bring it all together.
Your favorite shoot so far?
Hailey: My favorite shoot was the 2007 Hobie swimwear shoot in Kona last November with David Pu’u. David is the most fun photographer to work with and the week long shoot was an incredible experience. We got to swim with dolphins (totally unplanned) and it was amazing.
Sierra: My favorite shoots are the Hobie shoots with David (Pu’u) because every day is new and exciting, and I’ve gotten to experience some things that I would’ve never been able to do like swimming with wild dolphins and catching waves in an outrigger.
This is one of the photos from the Hobie shoot. Sierra
