2011
July | Home Buying and Home Selling Tips - Part 3
Home
Home Buying Advices
Home Selling Advices
Home Mortgage Guide
Real Estate Investment
Foreclosure Guide
Cover story: What to do when house lingers unsold
Posted July 28, 2011
Comments(0)
The real estate market in the Washington metro area has been luckier than most in maintaining its stability, but it has by no means been immune to the economic downturn.
While homes in some neighborhoods have managed to hold their value and even experience price increases, in others, homes still languish on the market. Sellers have a few options available if their home stays on the market too long, including lowering the price, making some home improvements or renting their home while waiting for the market to improve.
“In the DC area, most homes should sell within no more than 60 days if they are properly priced and in good condition,” said Valerie Blake, an associate broker with Prudential Carruthers Realtors in the District. “There are three things that determine whether a home sells and for how much: location, condition and price. You can’t control the location, so you have to look at the condition and price if something is not selling.”
Heather Elias, a Realtor with Century 21 Redwood Realty in Ashburn, Va., said sometimes the lack of an offer is market-dependent and sometimes it is simply about the house itself.
Full story is available on The Washington Times
Filed under: Home Selling Advices
Selling your home in a down market takes patience, right price
Posted July 28, 2011
Comments(0)
The smell of Italian cooking that emanates throughout Eatontown resident Maria G. Celli’s home, which is up for sale, does more than just tempt the palate.
It helps to comfort potential home buyers who stop by to consider the three-bedroom ranch, located on Cedar Street and priced at $299,000.
“They had a warm feeling when they walked in,” said Gloria V. Siciliano, broker and owner of Re/Max Gateway in Ocean Township. “It felt like a home.”
In this market, everything matters, from the price of the house — a critical factor — to its appearance and even its atmosphere when buyers walk through the front door.
House shoppers have a supermarket of choices. According to Otteau Valuation Group, 72,891 homes were for sale in New Jersey in June, a 2 percent increase over June 2010. About 20 percent of the homes are foreclosures or distressed properties, the firm said.
Full story is available on app.com
Filed under: Home Selling Advices
Knowing How to Spot Excellent Real Estate Investment Opportunities
Posted July 28, 2011
Comments(0)
To this day, owning a real estate investment is one of the best ways to attaining a profitable asset that makes sizeable income in a very short time. The Forbes magazine has labelled real estate properties as one of the best income generating resources as well as the best returns in the last five years. Because of this, it has become a widespread feature many individuals covet of gaining ownership. However, how can you find a real estate investment? How do you figure out it is an exceptional asset opportunity?
Having a keen eye and knowing where to look are two qualities each individual must have in order to take the first step towards spotting real estate investment breaks.
The following are some useful tips that were compiled from successful investors:
1.) Overcome hurdles.
Hearsay’s are always surrounding us. All with different news that this property will reap you more rewards as compared to the other and vice versa. Or, you may constantly hear that real estate investments will not boom. In spite of these sayings and the unknowing things the future may hold, there are countless of ways to help you identify a good real estate investment opportunity that will be beneficial to you in the long run.
What matters most is your own decision while at the same time, taking into consideration the opinions of professionals behind real estate such as real estate agents and brokers.
2.) Take your time.
A real estate investment is a lifetime duty. It is a serious matter that you must learn how to combine threading with caution and taking chances. Do not be pressured and buy the first property you see. Know the facts first, decipher and then decide.
3.) Think out of the box.  Rather more on profit than loss.
Most often, individuals lose a great real estate investment opportunity because they dwell too much on the income loss first before foreseeing the returns it will generate them.
While it is true that one must be wary of an investment’s financial disadvantages, focusing more on the positive side will help you come up with more ideas.
A home that was in a poor state before and has undergone renovation has great market and resale value as opposed to a home that is bought in good condition.
4.) Choose a rich location.
By rich, it not only means that the people around the area must be from the high society class or living in an upstate area. It simply means that, a location wherein migration is abundant. A place wherein it is situated at the heart of the city life or it is convenient to office buildings, commercial establishments, schools, banks, hospitals, has a low crime rate, high rate of employment and the like.
Where you want to buy lies on your needs and wants and what is vacant as of now. When choosing a real estate investment, it is best that you first figure out what you want. This way, you narrow down your search into a shorter list. You can also do a one on one survey on each location that is listed. Making inquiries about it becomes a lot manageable.
5.) Look out for newly opened facilities.
Whenever a new service is being manufactured and people have been abuzz about it as well as it is well located, the possibility of attaining a real estate investment near this area is very good.
Research areas not only within your vicinity but as well as outside it. You never know there is a great opportunity in the country side. Gather up on tools such as the internet or a real estate company to help you determine more excellent openings.
6.) Make a thorough inspection.
A property whether it be a residential or commercial real estate must always be examined first hand before divulging into more transactions.
A property’s overall state, the foundation and structure of the building and electrical wiring’s are only some important aspects to look out for.
Ask for permits and other documentations that will prove that the real estate is valid.
A great investor knows how to spot opportunities in hindsight, regardless if it is developed or underdeveloped. Arm yourself with the right skills and always practice being careful. Take chances. Be open. In no time, you will reap off the rewards of your well-thought out decisions.
Filed under: Real Estate Investment
How to Steer Clear From Common Home Buying Mistakes?
Posted July 28, 2011
Comments(0)
Every individual desires to own a home to call their own. Naturally, you want a place to stay that exudes appeal and provides comfort. At the same time, owning a residential real estate is also a great investment to have these days. You can reap profits with its home value or just by simply reselling it. Also, you can obtain financial assistance by using your home’s equity. There are many uses a home can bring. That is why, it is essential to invest smart and avoid falling into the pitfall of home buying mistakes most individuals are susceptible to make.
Owning a home is supposedly to bring joy and a sense of completion to any individual. However, there are just those pesky home buying mistakes that seemingly arise out of nowhere that causes conflicts in the whole home buying process. In order to avoid making them, it is advised that you gain knowledge about these general errors. Here are some tips.
Start It By Doing Your Homework
It is your assignment to make some research about the whole home ownership process, from the hiring of a professional to locating the best priced property to obtaining a housing loan for back-up. Learn up by scouting on real estate books and understand the issues well. The internet is one of the best ways to instantly gain knowledge about residential buying since it has extensive websites and real estate online libraries that can help you grasp the basics. Online chat forums about real estate are also present. What’s more great about it is that there are numerous real estate agents online that can answer your queries and shed some light to your doubts.
Try asking your friends, relatives and co-workers who are home owners for some information. Or, go to your state’s real estate firm and seek professional advice.
Failure to Get Pre-approved Mortgage Loan
When it comes to buying a house, most home buyers are in need of fiscal assistance to support this purchase. Obtaining a home is costly and it can cause a huge burden in your finances. Applying for a mortgage loan will help you completely gain tenure of a property. Plus, a loan like this will serve as your basis as to how much you can afford. This way, your house hunting will be categorized under your budget. This gives sellers an idea that you are totally serious of finding a home.
Ensure A Valid Contract
As a home buyer, your home contract must be entitled of your protection. Meaning, they must the three C’s or contingency sections. First, is the inspection contingency which gives the buyer the right to terminate the contract once you spot countless of damages in the house. Second, is the appraisal contingency which states that the appraisal of the house must meet and not surpass the property’s purchase cost. Lastly, is the mortgage financing contingency which defends the buyer if you are not able to qualify for a mortgage loan.
Think Long Term
It is very likely that you will live in this house for many years, but it is also possible that you will move on to another residence for the coming years. So, it is best to think on a long term. This is an investment that must be done with assurance. Consider possible circumstances like when your family will grow or when you plan to sell it. See to it that the house you will buy has an excellent resale value or its market value increases every year.
Do A Walk-through
This is also one of the most essential steps when house buying. Most people shun this idea away especially when they already saw pictures of the residence. But, what you do not know is that sellers stage their home and hire professional photographers that make their homes very appealing. Do it personally and visit the house. You can even ask help from a home inspection agency or a real estate appraiser to aid you with the property’s real condition and value.
Inspect every area of the house, spot any possible defects that needs minor to major repairs. In this way, sellers know about it and will even possibly give you a discount on the selling price since you still have to shell out money for renovations.
By being aware of the potential errors that come with buying a home and knowing how to counteract them, the road to this whole process will be as smooth as possible.
Filed under: Home Buying Advices
A Home Buyer’s Guide to Avoiding Contract Closing Dilemmas
Posted July 28, 2011
Comments(0)
In the business of real estate, there are two things that happen – either the seller proposes to the buyer to purchase the house or the buyer sends an offer to the seller to buy the house. After which, the transaction commences and will only be considered as a closed deal once both parties involved have finished the home ownership process as well agreed to practice the whole agreement. However, there are times when closing a contract will be terminated due to unsatisfactory conditions. In order to avoid dealing with this situation, it is best that home buyers get a clear picture first of how the whole process works.
There are a few things that must be aired out when it comes to closing a home buyer contract. As the buyer, your main goal is to make sure that you secure tenure of the property especially if the house for sale is your dream house. It is also your responsibility to be well-informed and courteous in terms of transacting with the seller. For a seller, you must also maintain a fair deal. Meaning, what was settled is final and your home for sale must be reserved to the buyer who is almost near the requirements completion. Once these are met, the whole process will be 100% effective.
Ways to Avoid Contract Closing Issues
1.) Apply for a mortgage loan ahead of time.
Qualifying for a housing loan these days is not easy as it was before. When you wish to obtain a mortgage loan to help you (as a buyer) finance the cost of your soon to be home, apply ahead of time. Take note that most sellers move on fast to another prospective home buyer when you are not able to produce any financing on the stipulated deadline. Having ample time to get your housing assistance will eliminate the chances of your contract termination.
2.) Know the contract’s starting date.
Usually, the date indicated in the contract is not really the specified time for the contract to commence. It is vital that you know when the contract’s date is effective; otherwise all you have is a void piece of paper. There are given number of days for requirements to be done such as loan application and approval, home inspection and title holder.
3.) Have all your documents ready.
Most often, closing of contract is delayed or ceased because home buyers neglect to tend to their legal papers. So, before you go into the whole home purchasing phase, it is best for you to know if all needed documents are present. Check if they are valid and information’s displayed are up to date.
4.) Be present during home inspection.
Yes, home inspectors are hired to spot possible defects and needed repairs easier for you. But, do keep in mind that they are entirely different from one another. Some inspectors are overly picky while others do not mind at all. So in order to avoid any arguments between you and the seller, you must be in attendance when home inspection is being held.
5.) Ask assistance from a real estate agent.
This will help you make the job easier since the agent is in charge of it and understands everything that goes into the process.
6.) Hire a real estate appraiser.
Employ an appraiser that is familiar with the community or someone who works within the locality. This way, appraisal of the home’s value is correct. This avoids almost half of the obstacles that may cause contract closing problems.
7.) Let everyone sign the contract.
If the house for sale is owned by a family or a couple, then see to it that you get each individual to sign up the contract in order to avoid faulty contracts or any misleading issues that will cause problems.
8.) Make a review.
Days before the closing of contract, see to it that you review all the things indicated on the paper. Also, it will help to let the seller go over the contract once again to eliminate any issues. If there are any adjustments, then both parties still have time to deal with it that will still make the transaction come into a successful close.
Closing contracts are not that dreadful as most people perceive it to be. As long as you are attentive, thorough and responsible, the whole home buying process will just be a walk in the park.
Filed under: Home Buying Advices
US Housing Market Suffers from Contract Cancellations
Posted July 28, 2011
Comments(0)
Existing residential property sales in the United States eased back in June as contract cancellations spiked unexpectedly, although prices were up slightly, according to the latest report from the National Association of Realtors.
Sales gains in the Midwest and South were offset by declines in the Northeast and West. Single family home sales were stable while the condo sector weakened, the report shows.
Total existing home sales, which are completed transactions that include single family, town homes, condominiums and co-ops, fell 0.8% to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 4.77 million in June from 4.81 million in May, and remain 8.8% below the 5.23 million unit level in June 2010, which was the scheduled closing deadline for the home buyer tax credit.
‘Home sales had been trending up without a tax stimulus, but a variety of issues are weighing on the market including an unusual spike in contract cancellations in the past month,’ said Lawrence Yun, NAR economist.
‘The underlying reason for elevated cancellations is unclear, but with problems including tight credit and low appraisals, 16% of NAR members report a sales contract was cancelled in June, up from 4% in May, which stands out in contrast with the pattern over the past year,’ he explained.
‘Pending home sales were down in April but up in May, so we may be seeing some of that mix in closed sales for June. However, economic uncertainty and the federal budget debacle may be causing hesitation among some consumers or lenders,’ he added.
Full story is available on NuWireInvestor
Filed under: Home Selling Advices
Ahead of the Bell: New home sales
Posted July 27, 2011
Comments(0)
More people likely purchased new homes in June than the previous
month, although sales are expected to remain below healthy levels.
Economists forecast that new-home sales rose to a seasonally
adjusted annual rate of 323,000 in June, according to a survey by
FactSet. The Commerce Department will release the report at 10 a.m.
Tuesday.
In May, sales fell 2.1 percent to an annual rate of 319,000.
That’s less than half the 700,000 homes per year that economists say is
typical in healthy markets.
In a separate report Tuesday, Standard & Poor’s/Case-Shiller
will release its home-price index for May. The index measures home
prices in 20 of the largest US metro areas. It sank in March to its
lowest levels since 2002. It rebounded slightly in April because of a
traditional influx of spring buying.
Full story is available on Business Week
Filed under: Home Selling Advices
Home-Buying Regrets: Two Military Families’ Sagas
Posted July 27, 2011
Comments(0)
First of a three-part series
It’s
lunchtime, and Sarah Bullard and her four kids gather around the island
in the kitchen of their Bristol, RI, home. Her husband, a Navy
officer, is out of town.
This kitchen is what
sold her on the house on a snowy December day.
“We
walked through, and it was a cluttered mess,” Bullard says. “And we
sort of looked at each other and walked through into the kitchen, and my
husband looked at me and was like, ‘Uh-oh. This is it. It’s a beautiful
kitchen.’ ”
Now Bullard wishes she had never
seen that kitchen. Buying the house turned out to be a huge mistake.
Full story is available on npr
Filed under: Home Buying Advices
How to blow up your short sale
Posted July 27, 2011
Comments(0)
Christine Donovan, a Realtor and attorney who does the weekly “Huntington Beach real estate minute” on listings, homes in escrow and sales, wrote a tongue-in-cheek post in her blog last year about how to wreck a short sale.
Now she’s followed it up. (By now most if not all of you know that a short sale is a home sold for less than what is owed on the mortgage, if the lender approves the deal.)
Donovan writes:
“Keep your uncooperative tenant
“This one is a biggie. If you really want to torpedo your short sale, make certain that your tenant refuses to allow access to potential buyers or even worse to your agent so that s/he can take pictures of the house. This will make it very hard to complete your short sale successfully.
“Why?
“It’s hard for your Realtor to sell your short sale if it can’t be seen. If you do get an offer, it’s likely to be from an investor who will not likely give you fair market value offer without being able to see the property.
Full story is available on OCRegister
Filed under: Home Foreclosure,Home Selling Advices
New home sales slip while prices and mortgage rates rise, sort of
Posted July 27, 2011
Comments(0)
House prices rose in May on both the 10- and 20-city composite
indices and in 16 of the 20 metropolitan areas surveyed. The 10-city
index rose 1.1% and the 20-city index rose 1% from April. However, house
prices remain below their levels of one year ago on both the composite
indices and in every metropolitan area except Washington, DC.
New home sales data released by the Commerce Department
