Content-Language: en-US
Content-Length: 58290
Vary: Accept-Encoding
Connection: close
Top Five Engineering Schools | College.com
FREE financial aid and education newsletter.
Follow us:
Degrees
Associate's Degree
Bachelor's Degree
Master's Degree
Doctorate Degree
Subjects
Arts, Fashion & Design
Business
Computers & IT
Criminal Justice & Legal
Culinary & Personal Services
Education
Engineering
Healthcare & Medical
Liberal Arts & Religion
Mechanic & Repair Tech
Science & Technology
Social Sciences
Trades & Vocations
Colleges By State
California
Florida
Pennsylvania
New York
Texas
District of Columbia
New Jersey
Ohio
Arizona
See All States
Online Colleges
Blog
Articles
Types of Financial Aid
Financial Aid
Current Student
Adult Learner
New Student
Parent / Guardian
Military
Home
»
Articles
»
New Student
» Top Five Engineering Schools
Alabama
Alaska
American Samoa
Arizona
Arkansas
California
Colorado
Connecticut
Delaware
District of Columbia
Federated States of Micronesia
Florida
Georgia
Guam
Hawaii
Idaho
Illinois
Indiana
Iowa
Kansas
Kentucky
Louisiana
Maine
Marshall Islands
Maryland
Massachusetts
Michigan
Minnesota
Mississippi
Missouri
Montana
Nebraska
Nevada
New Hampshire
New Jersey
New Mexico
New York
North Carolina
North Dakota
Northern Marianas
Ohio
Oklahoma
Oregon
Palau
Pennsylvania
Puerto Rico
Rhode Island
South Carolina
South Dakota
Tennessee
Texas
Utah
Vermont
Virgin Islands
Virginia
Washington
West Virginia
Wisconsin
Wyoming
Top Five Engineering Schools
Online Schools
(44)
Campus Schools
Top Five Engineering Schools
Engineering is defined as "the branch of science and technology concerned with the design, building, and use of engines, machines, and structures." There are many reasons someone would choose to enter an engineering degree program. Engineering students are generally interested in innovation and the creation of new products or ideas. They have been exposed to the sciences and like learning about the scientific disciplines. Logic is a key element for engineering students, as they must reason through problems. Besides the intrinsic rewards of an engineering degree, students may pursue it for the lucrative salaries that come with an engineering career.
There are different engineering disciplines and all of the top five engineering schools offer programs within the disciplines. These disciplines include:
Architecture - designing structures/buildings
Chemical - converting raw materials to usable compounds
Civil - designing infrastructure like roads and bridges
Computer - creating all aspects of computers
Electrical - manipulating electricity and magnetism to create devices
Industrial - enhance industrial processes
Geotechnical - improve processes or machines related to natural resources like oil and wood
Mechanical - create mechanical systems such as vehicles or engines
Here are the top five Bachelor's degree engineering schools:
1. Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) - This school is located in Cambridge, MA, which is also home to the prestigious Harvard University. MIT has an enrollment of 4,232 undergraduates and a total of 10,384 students and is within minutes of Boston. The tuition cost for the university is $39,212 but financial aid is available to cover these costs.
2. Stanford University - Stanford University is located right by Palo Alto, California, a high technology city that is home to many prominent companies like Facebook, Hewlett-Packard, and Tesla Motors. Stanford has 6,878 undergraduates and a total enrollment of 15,319 students. Tuition at Stanford University costs $39,201 but the school has a no loans policy where students whose families earn less than $100,000 do not have to pay tuition, while those whose families earn less than $60,000 do not have to pay for room and board or dining plans as well.
3. University of California, Berkeley - The University of California, Berkeley is one of the most prominent public universities in the nation. It is located in Berkeley, CA, a forward-thinking city that was voted the third most liberal city in the United States and is home to the Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory. The university has 25,530 undergraduates and 35,843 total students. In-state tuition is $10,868 while out-of-state students are billed $33,747.
4. California Institute of Technology - The California Institute of Technology, known as Caltech, is situated in Pasadena, CA, about 11 miles northeast of downtown Los Angeles. Caltech has a smaller student body than the other universities on this list, with 967 undergraduates and 2,130 total students.  Annual tuition at Caltech is $36,282, but this is offset by the fact that Caltech alumni have the highest median starting salary among all universities, according to Payscale.
5. Georgia Institute of Technology - This is also one of the most prestigious public schools in the country and is usually called Georgia Tech. The campus is located in midtown Atlanta, GA
