News
HOMEMAGAZINEAbout MiniWorldThis monthBack issuesSubscriptionsHow to advertiseContact usNewsletterDigital magazineNEWSNews ArchiveCOMPETITIONSSUBSCRIBECLUBSUK Mini ClubsInternational ClubsSpecialist Mini ClubsTHE SCENENew to Minis?New MINIFEATURESTechnicalFeature MinisGALLERIESWallpapersShow GalleriesVIDEOMINI SHOPCONTACT
For lots more Mini news pick up the the latest issue of Mini World or subscribe today!
Advertisements
Used Mercedes
If you're looking for style and substance visit Exchange and Mart today to view a fantastic selection of used Mercedes cars.
Used Mini
Find a great selection of used Minis at Exchange and Mart today. Visit us to view great cars and read the latest car reviews online.
Used BMW
Looking for a used BMW? Visit Exchange and Mart to view a great selection of used BMW cars from the classic 1 Series to the Z4.
USED CARS
USED VANS
Car Insurances
Motor insurance quotes via Cheap Car Insurance
Grand National New MINI Show
For franchised pre-owned Minis we recommend Trusted Dealers Ltd for a huge range of Minis for sale.
Used cars by Make and Model
Looking for Cheap Car Insurance for your Mini? Visit Quotecheap UK Today!
Alloy Wheels Sale - Buy New Wheels from Wheelbase, Hundreds on Sale
Classic Mini Parts
Mini Car Parts
Classic mini spares competitive prices
Wirral to Llandudno Run
Tuesday, 21 February 2012 00:00
The 2012 Wirral to Llandudno Run on Sunday 15 January started off cold and frosty but, fortunately, stayed dry all day, with clear blue skies greeting the Minis on arrival at Llandudno. A fantastic turnout of 117 cars braved the cold, coming from as far away as Cornwall and Bristol. The Minis attracted a large crowd on Llandudno Prom and were enjoyed by all ages. Well done to Wirral Minis for another great event. See www.wirralminis.com.
MICKS Run
Tuesday, 21 February 2012 00:00
The Irish Mini Owners Club held its MICKS Run (Minis in County Kildare) in November. A total of 13 cars turned out for the crisp winter’s morning run, which took them across the County of Kildare and the Curragh Plains with a nice lunch stop in the town of Kilcullen. The club would like to thank Killian O’Carroll who organised the run and route.
Help for Heroes Mini
Tuesday, 21 February 2012 00:00
Robert Earls is looking for sponsors for his project to build a mascot Mini to raise money for the Help for Heroes charity. The aim is for the car to be used to promote awareness at shows to collect donations for the charity. If you’d like to help this worthy cause check out the website at www.miniforheroes.com or see the Minis for Heroes Facebook page.
BRSCC Mighty Minis Championship
Tuesday, 21 February 2012 00:00
Thomas Moseley is 20 years old and a Mini enthusiast from Yorkshire. Currently at college, and working part time at Halfords, he spends all his spare time and money on his Mini racing car. Thomas will be competing in this year’s BRSCC Mighty Minis championship.He has Minis in his blood, as his great grandfather owned a very special Mini. In 1965 the millionth Mini came off of the production line at Longbridge. A draw took place where it was won by a BMC employee. However, the very next Mini made was won by BMC customer, Alfred Benton, Thomas’ great grandfather. You can see this Mini at www.britishpathe.com/video/millionth-mini. Keep up with Thomas’ progress at www.thomasmoseleymightyminis.blogspot.com or check out his sponsor’s website at www.blog.minisport.com.
Electric Minis Made by a C-FEE
Tuesday, 21 February 2012 00:00
Anybody living in Thailand
