Last-Modified: Mon, 27 Feb 2012 19:41:42 GMT
Accept-Ranges: bytes
ETag: "2345f6d487f5cc1:daf"
Server: Microsoft-IIS/6.0
X-Powered-By: ASP.NET
Date: Thu, 01 Mar 2012 13:50:46 GMT
Connection: close
Home of the Concordia University, St. Paul Golden Bears
Official site of Concordia University, St. Paul Athletics
Home
Men's Sports
Baseball
Basketball
Cross Country
Football
Golf
Track & Field
Women's Sports
Basketball
Cross Country
Golf
Soccer
Softball
Track & Field
Volleyball
Inside Athletics
Athletes of the Week
Athletics Alumni
Bear Wear - NEW!
Cheer Team
C-Club
Department News
Division II History
Facilities
Fundraising Events
Hall of Fame
Marketing Interns
Recruit Information
Sea Foam Stadium
Sports Medicine
Staff Directory
Student Rewards
Visitor's Guide
Northern Sun
NSIC Home
Augustana
Bemidji State
Univ. of Mary
Minn., Crookston
Minn. Duluth
Minnesota State
MSU Moorhead
Northern State
St. Cloud State
SW Minnesota St.
Upper Iowa
Wayne State
Winona State
NCAA
Athlete Handbook
I Chose Division II
NCAA.com
NCAA.org
NCAA Blog
Golden Bears Face Road Tests This Weekend
Dec. 10– ST. PAUL, Minn. - The Golden Bear women's basketball team has jumped out to a great start this season, 6-0 overall and 2-0 in NSIC play and can build a true name for themselves this weekend.  They head out on the road for games against Minnesota, Crookston (3-4, 1-1 NSIC) and an undefeated MSU Moorhead squad this Friday and Saturday, with tip-off times of 6:00 pm both nights.  This is the last NSIC action of the 2009 calendar year, with three non-conference games scheduled over the holidays.  VIEW COMPLETE RELEASE  -  WATCH LIVE  -  LIVE STATS
Concordia will have to be focused and prepared for both games this weekend.  Minnesota, Crookston is a different team than they have been in the past, taking a non-conference win from Winona State, a league win over Bemidji State and forcing Minnesota Duluth into an overtime period.  They have been able to put up plenty of points, but the Golden Bears hope their fast offense will overpower UMC's defense.
MSU Moorhead is neck-and-neck with Concordia in receiving points for the national poll but not yet taking in a top-25 ranking.  Both squads will aim to keep their season undefeated on Saturday night.  The Dragons look much different than the Golden Bears, with the majority of their scoring and defense coming from post players.  CU and MSUM are the NSIC's two leading points-scorers, the Golden Bears using speed and guards to score and the Dragons bumping and forcing their hand down low with their bigs.  MSUM leads the NSIC in rebounding and has used shot blocking to stifle opponent shooting, limiting them to 30.1%.  Concordia hopes to attack MSUM before they have a chance to use their posts, expecting a full court press and on-ball pressure to take the advantage in the game.
Guard Jineen Williams (Jr., Racine, Wis.) is the top averaging scorer for Concordia so far this season.  She averaged 18.0 points and 4.5 rebounds per game while shooting 50% from the field last weekend and has a team high 16.7 ppg this year.  Guard Maurika Hickman (Jr., Minneapolis, Minn.) has also had a strong few weeks, now averaging 13.8 ppg.  Jamie Jones (Sr., Mounds View, Minn.), also a guard, is the team's third-leading scorer with 12.3 ppg.  Jones
