Last-Modified: Mon, 12 Jan 2009 01:16:03 GMT
Accept-Ranges: bytes
ETag: "d4b0fc555374c91:0"
Server: Microsoft-IIS/7.0
X-Powered-By: ASP.NET
Date: Thu, 01 Mar 2012 17:26:40 GMT
Connection: close
Content-Length: 13330
EXCEL Basics: Data Types and Data Input
EXCEL 2007 Basics: Data Input and Types of Data
A. Colin Cameron, Dept. of Economics, Univ. of
Calif.
- Davis
This September 1999 help sheet gives information
Text files and non-text files.
File formats.
Methods to input data from a range of sources
1. Type data into an existing Worksheet
2. Read in data from an existing worksheet or
workbook
3. Copy data from an existing worksheet
4. Read in data from an existing comma-separated
values file
5. Read in data from an existing text file
6. Read in data from files in other formats
Saving files
It can be surprisingly difficult to input data from
sources other than
an Excel workbook from versions of Excel the same as or earlier than
the
version you are using.
TEXT FILES AND NON-TEXT FILES
There are many ways to represent data on a computer.
The essential
divide is between text files and non-text files.
Text files can
be directly read using a text editor such as Notepad in Microsoft Windows.
These files often have extension .txt but can often have other
extensions (a common one we will use is .csv).
Example: For the text file carsdata.txt Notepad
yields
Non-text files cannot be meaningfully read using a text editor such as Notepad.
Then one obtains non-text characters that appear as, for example, @Z
xxxxxxx
Example: For the non-text file carsdata.xls (an Excel file)
Notepad yields
Instead non-text files can only be read using
special software.
In this example an Excel file can be meaningfully read using the Excel
program.
FILE FORMATS
The most common data formats used to store data in
files that can be
read data into Excel are:
Existing Excel workbook or worksheet with
extension .xls
This is easily read into Excel, just like reading a Word
file with extension .doc using MS Word.
Existing Excel workbook or worksheet with
extension .xlsx
The extension .xlsx mean that the file is in Excel 2007
format.
This may not be recognized by earlier versions of Excel such as Excel
97 or Excel 2003.
Comma-separated values text file with extension .csv
This is easily read into Excel.
Furthermore, because this is a text file it can be read by many other
programs.
Text file, often with extension .txt
or extension .asc
This can be read into Excel but information about the
formatting of the data needs to be provided, as explained below.
METHODS TO INPUT DATA
Common ways to input data into Excel are:
Type in data into a new Excel worksheet.
Read in data from an existing Excel workbook.
Copy data from an existing Excel worksheet.
Read in data from an existing comma-separated
values text file.
Read in data from and existing text file
(possibly
downloaded
from the internet)
and convert the file to an Excel worksheet.
Read in data from other format files if Excel
recognizes this
format.
1. TYPE IN DATA INTO A NEW EXCEL WORKSHEET
Open Excel, for example from Windows Start Menu |
Programs.
This immediately puts you into a new Excel worksheet, or prompts you
to ask for a new Excel worksheet.
Consider entry of the following data on the number
of cars in a
household
(first column) and the number of persons in the household (second
column).
1
1
2
2
2
3
2
4
3
5
Type the data into cells A1:A5 and cells B1:B5.
(Click on cell A1
and
enter 1 and then enter, then 2 and enter ....)
Then give headers to the two columns.
Put cursor in cell A1 and right-click and select Insert and then select
Entire Row.
Then in the new blank cell A1 type CARS and in the new blank cell A2
type HH SIZE.
Now headers (CARS and HH SIZE) are in row 1 and data
are in rows 2
to
6. The final data are:
Next give the worksheet a name.
Go to the sheet tab at the bottom, which may be called Sheet 1,
right-click
and select Rename and give the worksheet a name.
Finally save the workbook by using Office Button and
Save As if a new workbook
or Office Button and Save if saving an existing workbook.
If typing in a lot of data it is obviously best to save the workbook a
number of times before typing is finished.
2. READ IN DATA FROM AN EXISTING EXCEL WORKBOOK
OR WORKSHEET
This is the easiest, if you have approriate
version(s) of Excel.
Open Excel, for example from Start Menu | Programs.
Left-click the Office Button, select Open and give the filename or
browse for the file you
want to input.
Usually the filename will have extension .xls
or .xlsx
Excel 2007 should read all previous versions of Excel files, though not
vice-versa.
For example, read in the file carsdata.xls
(which is an Excel 97-2003 workbook).
3. COPY DATA FROM AN EXISTING EXCEL WORKSHEET
Suppose we are already in an existing worksheet
within an existing
workbook.
Right click on the Worksheet Tab at the bottom.
This yields the Move or Copy dialog box
If copy is to the existing workbook (the default)
then most often
one
chooses the (move to end) option in Before Sheet.
If copy is to a new workbook then choose the (new
book) option in
to
book and type in the name of the new book.
In either case select the Create a Copy option.
Give the new worksheet an appropriate name by going
to the sheet tab
at the bottom, right-click and select rename and give the worksheet a
name.
4. READ IN DATA FROM A COMMA-SEPARATED VALUES FILE
A comma-separated values file is a text file where
each row is a spreadsheet row and each entry, separated by a comma, is
a column entry for that row.
The first row provides names for the columns of the spreadsheet.
These files are given extension .csv.
Excel automatically reads in files with extension .csv
Many other programs are able to read in data a .csv
file, but not data in an .xls file.
It is a standard format for transferring data across different programs.
For example the file carsdata.csv
is a text file with the following entries
Related text files include tab-delimited text
and  space-delimited formatted text.
5. READ IN DATA FROM AN EXISTING TEXT FILE
5a. Obtain text file with data from the internet
Skip this step if you already have the data file carsdata.txt on
your computer.
In your web browser click on file carsdata.txt
The web browser displays
1. 1.
2. 2.
2. 3.
2. 4.
3. 5.
Choose File / Save As in your browser to save the
data as carsdata.txt in
directory
of your choosing, e.g. in c:/Temp
5b. Enter the text file with data into Excel
Now open Excel and from the Office Button choose Open
At the bottom of the Open dialog box choose the option Files of type |
All Files (*.*) and navigate to highlight file c:/Temp/carsdata.txt and
click Open.
This yields the Text Import Wizard
The challenge is to places the first and second
numbers into separate columns, rather than
combined into one column.
In text import import wizard
Choose Delimited if the data are delimited and
Fixed width if the
data are fixed width.
In this example either option can be chosen.
Set the Start import at row to the first row that
has data, skipping any preceding text such as explanation of the data.
In this example there is now preceding text, so Start
import at row 1.
So Step 1: choose Delimited and Start Import at Row
1 and hit Next.
This yields Step 2. The default Delimiter is Tab. Change this to Space.
Then check that the Data preview has correctly split up the data, as is
the case below.
Hit next.
This yields step 3. In this case leave the column data format as
general.
Hit Finish.
This should give you an Excel worksheet with 2 columns and 5 rows in
cells A1


