We’re making progress… « Wave Without A Shore
Home
About me
Genealogy: a hobby of mine…
TROUBLESHOOTING your e-books on computers AND e-readers
E-publishers and Small Presses of Note
Contact Info
Writing for Fun and Profit
spoiler potential: caution: book questions.
About the Foreigner series: Spoiler alerts
Alliance-Union books: spoiler alert
Fantasy books: Spoiler alert.
Gene Wars Universe: Spoiler Alert
CLOSED CIRCLE QUERIES AND FAQS
Linguistics
EBOOK DOWNLOAD TUTORIAL
Book Discussion: all books: spoiler alert in effect…
THE S&S PROJECT
Foreigner Guidebook.
Alliance-Union Guidebook
Bookbinding: How to.
Foreigner Series: Spoiler Alerts: Page 2
The Map Room
Wave Without A ShoreC.J. Cherryh's Own Weblog: e-books, science fiction and fantasyCommentsPosts
BUY NEW BOOKS
Vampires Strike Closed Circle!
Recent comments
CJ: Link to Jane's slideshow: http://www.janefancher.com/TheCapt
CJ: MM, that link gets you to a master site---do you have one to
mmberry: Forgive me.
I have an update to something that was posted e
paul: And at 9:58, after posting that, it's gobe back to the verti
paul: Are/were you online at 9:55AM Thursday?
A minute ago the sp
paul: Perhaps that explains why some days I can see all the avatar
CJ: BTW, Jane now has a slideshow of the old and new bathroom---
Closed Circle Websites
Calibre: DRM-free books
our books on Calibre’s listing of DRM-free books. Calibre has been with us from the beginning and is a great software, too.
CLOSED CIRCLE
Three writers on a mission: we offer our e-books, both backlist and new books: and we have opinions about the future of this literature we love.
Closed Circle author: Jane Fancher's Blog, The Captain And Lime
Jane is 1/3 of Closed Circle: writing; covers; e-book conversion; and slideshows
Closed Circle author: Lynn Abbey's Blog, Face of Chaos
Lynn is 1/3 of Closed Circle: writing, web-wizardry, and site-repair
Closed Circle Bazaar: Our Cafe Press Shop
T-shirts, mugs, bags, hats, stickers: you want it, we’ll add the product.
Closed Circle: more information: so what IS a legitimate e-book?
how to keep your favorite writers writing
SEEKING NORTH
a shared world, by Closed Circle authors playing around
The FAQ: What's Closed Circle?
Website: cherryh.com
Website: Jane Fancher
Website: Lynn Abbey
Our Blogroll
Archive Project
Similar to Project Gutenberg: polylingual site: go to Community and select English.
Author sites you should visit: Diane Duane
Diane Duane’s ‘s books and e-books
Author sites you should visit: Jeffrey Carver
Jeffrey Carver’s ebooks and website.
Author sites you should visit: legal free e-books: Project Gutenberg
Project Gutenberg is dedicated to preserving books, classics, including science fiction and fantasy. If it’s old, it may be here.
Author sites you should visit: Patricia Briggs
good friend, good books
Author sites you should visit: Stephen Goldin blog: The Ingesterie
Stephen Goldin also sells lots of e-books.
Calibre: DRM-free books
our books on Calibre’s listing of DRM-free books. Calibre has been with us from the beginning and is a great software, too.
Fantasy Faction
A forum for fantasy readers that allows writers to advertise their work: we have.
Ivan Tefalco: brokencanoe.net , a new writer, has a reciprocal link with us.
New writer
Petfinders: where to ADOPT a Pet
Input your zipcode and find a pet waiting for adoption: in honor of Ruthie
Sacred Band
Janet and Chris Morris: related to Thieves’ World and Heroes in Hell
Spence's Ragi Language link
e-book and notes on Ragi
Where to get: an Avatar
GET AN AVATAR
there is a hard-to-see “signup” link on this page. It’s a pretty fast process, and will follow you to all gravatar enabled sites. DO GET A GRAVATAR BEFORE CREATING YOUR ACCOUNT HERE!
Where to get: e-book free readers
e-book software for Apple products: Stanza
For Apple computers and I-phones, and more: a good reader that handles .epub.
e-book software: Calibre e-book software for Linux
e-book software: Calibre e-book software for Mac: Tiger, Leopard, Snow Leopard, etc.
e-book software: Calibre e-book software for Windows
This is an e-book conversion software and reader. Like most freeware, this hopes for a donation if you turn out to use it. Operates on Windows, OS X (Mac), and Linux.
e-book software: Microsoft Reader Download
Site with download for a reader that reads .lit files…including aloud. Plus a download-able plug-in for MSWord2000 up, that will create .lit files.
e-book software: mobipocket E-book Reader for PC Desktop: Download [box on right]
This turns your PC into an e-book reader for any book in mobi format: works on PC, some phones, eInk devices, blackberry
Archives
Select Month
March 2012
February 2012
January 2012
December 2011
November 2011
October 2011
September 2011
August 2011
July 2011
June 2011
May 2011
April 2011
March 2011
February 2011
January 2011
December 2010
November 2010
October 2010
September 2010
August 2010
July 2010
June 2010
May 2010
April 2010
March 2010
February 2010
January 2010
December 2009
November 2009
October 2009
September 2009
August 2009
July 2009
CONVENTION APPEARANCES Usually at Miscon 2012, around Memorial Day, Missoula MT, CJ/Jane. Also Spokon in Spokane, in July/August,
Radcon 2012, around Feb 14, Red Lion in Pasco Wa, CJ, Jane, OSG. Note:ConDor, San Diego, CA, was a great con, and we may very well go back one day; also on this list, Soonercon, Midsouthcon, Chattacon, and Conquest KC. We are so far behind due to Jane's illness (she is all better now,) not to mention financial hits from same, that we are having to curtail con ac to try to catch up.
March 2012
M
T
W
T
F
S
S
« Feb
1234
567891011
12131415161718
19202122232425
262728293031
« and more progress…    The day after… »
We’re making progress… Sei’s just very careful about coming onto Herself’s territory; but yesterday he spent most of the day under the chest of drawers in my room…rather a high legged chest, so I know he’s there, and he can watch things.
He spent last night there, too, or at least was there this morning. This morning I called to him, and he came over, very cautiously got onto the bed. Then started head-butting and rolling over and doing tummy fur and got under the covers and purred. Didn’t stay there long. I’ve been careful not to force him to do anything. I just call, and if he wants to come, he comes…but he’s getting more willing to pay attention. [Ysabel would come when I called, infallibly, dear old girl.] But no comparisons are fair. Sei came to us as a young gentleman, a year old, and he’s got his own ways, which are very fine. Patience is my part in this transaction; trust, in his. So we have at least the beginning of a partnership. No, I’m not fickle: I feel Ysabel’s absence deeply, but I will do that for a long, long time. But Sei’s at a crossroads, and I can’t leave him there: I have to open the way for him to be him, and not ask him to be Ysabel, but to try to get those behaviors that are safety for a traveling kitteh, the willingness to be close to me, and to pay attention to my voice. He’s caught in a moment of change, and wondering what happened and if there’s now a room in the house that could be his, and he’s interested; I have to meet that willingness fairly, and if I shed a tear or two in the process, well, kittehs don’t understand that sort of thing half as well as they understand an offered lap and a cuddle.
October 27th, 2011 |
Category: Journal
12 comments to We’re making progress…
philbrown
October 27, 2011 at 10:16 am
Log in to Reply
I see parallels between Sei and certain of your characters.
Phil Brown
horsewisevt
October 27, 2011 at 10:35 am
Log in to Reply
Sei is the guide for the next part of your journey.
A fire ceremony to honour Ysabel might be beneficial.
Honour and release.
She will then be able to walk by your side from the energetic side of the fence, and that will then allow Sei to step into his role on this side.
He may need to know that the “space” is open for him to step into.
Part of that is awareness, that there has been and is going to be a significant transition on your journey, and inviting Sei to lead, guide and protect you.
WOL
October 27, 2011 at 1:55 pm
Log in to Reply
I think Ysabel waited until she was sure she was leaving you in good paws.
Empty Nest
October 27, 2011 at 3:02 pm
Log in to Reply
I think horsewisevt has given an excellent suggestion. When you feel ready, you and Jane can arrange a ceremony for Shu and Sei both as they assume new roles in the household. In no way will the elder cats be forgotten, but the younger ones can be promoted, so to speak.
OrionSlaveGirl
October 27, 2011 at 6:03 pm
Log in to Reply
Please let me know when you feel up to lighting the Shejidan lantern for Ysabel.
We need to do it yet for Emily and Katie.
Tears will be shed, but crying never hurt anyone, and is healing, I think.
kokipy
October 27, 2011 at 6:19 pm
Log in to Reply
Seishi seems like a gentle creature that was not loved nearly enough in his past life, and he is surely in the right place now. And you know cats always know when you are hurting and they want to come help you feel better.
I do like to think of you three (or five) lighting the lantern for the departed ones. Putting light around them.
sloren
October 27, 2011 at 7:04 pm
Log in to Reply
Even in the greatest sadness a cat is a perfect anchor to reality, and a cat’s fur can soak up any amount of tears. Somehow they leave space for our memories of lost ones, but filling gaps we never knew existed with new quirks.
cherryhfan
October 28, 2011 at 7:26 am
Log in to Reply
I have been away from the computer for a few days and did not know.
I am so, so sorry.
So very sorry.
Ever since we lost our Carrots kitty, our newest member of the household, Jack Bauer, has tried to take up the slack.
He is a big kitty, with big paws, like Seishi, and so very soft.
Whenever any of us is especially missing our Carrots, there he is, insisting on being held and offering comfort, just like Kokipy says.
And yes, Sloren is right…a cat’s fur really can soak up any amount of tears.
I’ll be keeping you in my thoughts.
BlueCatShip
October 28, 2011 at 12:42 pm
Log in to Reply
Something that might brighten your day a bit.
Today, went to the store and they’re moving everything around. Looked for, didn’t find udon noodles this time. Will find them (or other whole wheat / buckwheat) next time.
But what I *did* find by accident gave me a chuckle, so I thought I’d share. Looking through the shelves, what do I run across, but “Pocky.” Now, I didn’t know what “Pocky” is, except a reference in anime and art and fanfic. Huh, I think, probably sweeter than anything, but (haha) I bought a package to try. Had to.
Thought it might give you both a grin.
CJ
October 28, 2011 at 5:24 pm
Log in to Reply
ah, yes. I find Pocky pleasant. Jane really likes it.
Aja Jin
October 28, 2011 at 5:41 pm
Log in to Reply
My daughter, who loves anime and japanese culture, is a pocky lover. It’s good yummy stuff !
(OT: and now she’s taking Japanese language in college and really liking it a lot; very encouraging development for a “non-language” Geology major that hated High School Spanish).
As to your kittehs, it’s wonderful to hear that Sei (and you CJ
) are getting thought the transition. Our household is working through the loss of one of our three dogs. The adjustments are hard for two and four footed members of the family, but we’re doing ok.
Kroyd
October 28, 2011 at 7:46 pm
Log in to Reply
If you are going to eat pocky, then try to find a bottle or two of ramune, which is a type of japanese soda.
Many different flavors, and there is a marble-type ball inside the bottle to add to the experience.
My son is addicted (I think he is a changeling, japanese style).
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
You must be logged in to post a comment.
Meta
Register Log in
Entries RSS
Comments RSS
WordPress.org
Dave's Whizmatronic Widgulating Calibrational Scribometer
next foreigner book
Writing: part of count includes outline, which will be erased as I go.
96,467 of 120,000 words
(80%) complete
PollsPolls ArchiveTagsart
blog
cats
cherryh
closed circle
Closed Circle Bazaar
computer
drm-free
e-book
e-book formats
e-books
ePub
fancher
figure skating
filk
gardening
genealogy
Jane Fancher
koi
lynn abbey
member favorite books
mobi
music
pond
recipes
reef tank
science
science fiction
Spokane
sword & sorcery
the business
the daily grind
twitter
writing
REGISTER! to comment Use the button up in the META section above. Do fill in the NAME blank, be it only a first name, especially if you have a long and random address: our bot-deleter might make an error otherwise.
To get your own avatar as you register, first go to the gravatar site, http://en.gravatar.com/ , get an account, upload your chosen image, and THEN come back here to register. Your gravatar avatar will follow you at all WordPress sites.
Choose a user name that can be pronounced, or it may fail to register. Your first comment will not display until admin (me) vets it, to be sure you are not a lawyer from Hong Kong
