Ethical Guidelines for Addiction Treatment Professionals
HomeAdvertise With UsSubscribe Print EditionAbout UsContact UsCounselor BLOG
Search Counselor
Login
Remember me
Forgot login?
Get a Free Login
Poll
How Do You Prefer to Get Your Continuing Education?
Online Text-Based Courses
Online Audio-Based Courses
Online Video-Based Courses
Online Courses, All Formats
Webinars
Local Conferences
Conferences I Travel To
None of the Above
Current Issue
Subscribe to the Print Edition!
Main Menu
HomeFeature ArticlesColumnsNews BriefsEarn CE CreditsClassifieds
Information
Advertisers IndexReferral DirectoryAbout The MagazineFREE Online NewsletterProfessional BookstoreSubmit Articles
Magazine Issues
February 2012 Issue Vol.13
No.1December 2011 IssueOctober 2011 issueAugust 2011 issueJune 2011 IssueApril 2011 IssueFebruary 2011 IssueDecember 2010 IssueOctober 2010 IssueAugust 2010 IssueJune 2010 IssueApril 2010 IssueFebruary 2010 Issue
Ethical Guidelines for Addiction Treatment Professionals
Feature Articles																		 -
Professional Ethics
Sunday, 31 March 2002 16:00
The ability to recognize and respond appropriately to ethical dilemmas encountered while treating addictive disorders is a complex task that cannot be taken for granted by even experienced counselors. Full caseloads and busy schedules provide few opportunities for in-depth examinations of ethical dilemmas that often demand an on-the-spot decision. This article sets forth a pragmatic set of principles that can help counselors to evaluate ethically challenging situations. While these ethical principles are relevant to almost any counseling situation, this article focuses on how they apply to the treatment of substance and behavioral addictions.
Numerous written codes of ethical conduct exist to guide the many different counseling professions. These documents may be more useful for giving clients and the public an assurance of the ethical parameters of professional behavior than in providing counselors with a useful frame of reference for dealing with day-to-day dilemmas. There is also an important difference between merely abiding by rules of conduct and embodying the ideals contained within them (Coale, 1998; Tjeltveit, 1999). A set of common principles derived from these various codes must be sufficiently broad enough to take into account the rich variety of practice settings, counseling theories and treatment approaches in which addiction counselors operate. Any less inclusive formula for determining whether a counselor's behavior is ethically appropriate requires knowledge of the context in which it occurs. For example, vigorously challenging a client's beliefs or behaviors may be ethically justifiable under one set of circumstances but not another (Tjeltveit, 1999). Similarly, different counselors may respond to an identical ethical dilemma in very distinct yet equally justifiable ways. What follows are six core ethical guidelines that are sufficiently broad and context-free to serve as a useful frame of reference in day-to-day counseling practice. These six guidelines are to provide informed consent; operate in a competent and theoretically sound manner; insure confidentiality of client information; maintain appropriate relationship boundaries; utilize adequate consultation; and to honor diverse personal and cultural values (Corey et al., 1998).
Informed consent
Informed consent is the fundamental bedrock of ethical practice, because it helps to solidify the client's autonomy in matters that affect the entire course and direction of counseling. Counselors may not always fully appreciate the lengths they must go to in order to ensure that important decisions about treatment issues are truly made from a basis of informed choice. Rather than being a one-time event, informed consent is an on-going collaborative effort between client and counselor for establishing and continuously monitoring the goals and strategies of counseling as well as the roles, rights, and responsibilities of all parties (Tjeltveit, 1999).
A client has a right to know which treatment modalities an addiction counselor typically recommends, such as group therapy, couples therapy, family therapy, medication, support group attendance, and so forth. Counselors often don't take the time to explicitly discuss the expected benefits and potential risks of their services, as well as any alternative treatment approaches that may be available to the client. Informed consent also includes information about the anticipated duration of treatment and any situations that could result in a counselor prematurely terminating services. In addition, clients should know the policy for resolving disputes as well as all pertinent financial aspects of the counseling relationship; counselors should also be open to discussing their background and theoretical orientation (Houston-Vega and Nuehring, 1997). Due to the large volume this information may constitute, the counselor may choose to convey it by a combination of verbal and written means.
A client's informed consent is not in itself sufficient to determine whether a counselor's behavior is ethical. It's conceivable that clients might be willing to give their approval to any number of ethically inappropriate behaviors, so a counselor needs other core principles to guide the ethical decision-making process.
Competence and established theory
A counselor has an ethical responsibility to practice only within the scope of his or her professional competence. Some typical indicators of competence include education, experience, training, and certification (Pope and Vasquez, 1998). Competence in one clinical area doesn't necessarily translate to another. Counselors with extensive experience treating general psychiatric disorders aren't necessarily competent to meet the specific needs of addicted clients, just as addiction counselors without advanced training don't always adequately recognize signs of psychiatric disorders. Cross-referral between such specialists is necessary in such situations.
One often-overlooked component of competency is a counselor's ability to clearly describe the theoretical basis for providing a particular clinical service. Just because a client's case turned out all right doesn't necessarily justify a counselor's actions if they otherwise lack adequate theoretical support. It is important to do the right thing for the right reason, not just for the right result. Counselors operating without the benefit of a clear theory are likely to rely too much on a combination of intuition, habit, consensus and personal preference (Herring, 2001; Tjeltveit, 1999; Corey et al., 1998). Clients deserve the knowledge and right to accept or reject treatment that represents a particular theoretical orientation. In the absence of information to the contrary, clients will assume that whatever form of counseling they are receiving is the only available or appropriate choice.
Confidentiality
Another core ethical principle is for a counselor to vigilantly guard against unauthorized disclosure of client information. The assurance of confidentiality is a fundamental guarantee, but it is not an absolute one. Several ethical dilemmas involving confidentiality commonly arise in the treatment of addictive disorders:
Duty to Warn/Protect. It is widely accepted that counselors have a general obligation to warn or protect people whom a client places in imminent harm. The right to confidential treatment is therefore balanced by the need to ensure the safety of others. The beginning of the counseling relationship is the most appropriate time for a client to learn about these limits of confidentiality as well as any safeguards necessary to protect others, such as policies on notifying law enforcement personnel if a habitual DUI offender drives to a counseling appointment while apparently intoxicated.
Clients who inject drugs or engage in sexually risky behavior while chemically impaired may expose others to the risk of HIV infection. Courts have not generally applied duty-to-warn standards to these situations (Houston-Vega and Nuehring, 1997). Balancing the counselor-client relationship with the protection of at-risk populations is a very complex and emotionally charged situation.
Counselors should inform clients about their policy for dealing with HIV-related confidentiality issues, educate clients about the health risks of their specific sex and drug practices, communicate any concerns that arise during the course of treatment, offer to help communicate information to partners, and consult with colleagues as deemed appropriate.
Minors and Families. All states require counselors to report situations in which minors are in danger of harm, although specific state statutes differ (Corey et al., 1998). As most counselors know, it can be difficult to distinguish potential from probable risk. For instance, a client who admits to blackouts may deny that she places her children in any danger. A counselor who decides not to notify the designated reporting agency in such a situation should document the basis for this decision in the clinical record. Consultation in these situations is again extremely valuable in helping a counselor maintain much-needed clinical objectivity.
Counselors who treat minors for substance use disorders need to clearly establish the extent to which parents have the right to information that is disclosed by their children. A minor may be reluctant to talk honestly if confidentiality boundaries are not clear, and the therapeutic alliance may be crippled if a counselor who is unclear on the limits of confidentiality later provides information to parents. Counselors should be familiar with federal law on confidentiality of alcohol and drug abuse records for minor clients (Confidentiality of Alcohol and Drug Abuse Patient Records, 1998) as well as any applicable state laws, and should seek professional consultation whenever questions arise.
A major ethical concern that arises when counseling couples or families is how to deal with the emergence of secrets that so often accompany addictive disorders. For example, consider the situation that could arise when providing marital counseling to a couple if a husband who attends a session by himself announces that he's relapsed on cocaine but is unwilling to admit this to his wife. A counselor who keeps this information secret is not fostering a climate of honesty. On the other hand, revealing information that a client reasonably presumed would remain confidential will damage that client's trust, while threatening to summarily end treatment if the client isn't honest with his spouse is a form of coercion and potential abandonment. This again points to the necessity of informed consent: whatever approach a counselor takes in response to these types of situations needs to be thoroughly discussed at the beginning of the counseling relationship so that all clients are aware of the consequences of disclosure (Corey et al., 1998; Herring, 2001).
Maintaining appropriate boundaries
The next core concept of ethical counseling involves the complex area of maintaining appropriate professional boundaries. Most counselors know that there are ethical risks to developing relationships outside of the therapeutic role, such as counseling a friend or pursuing business or social interactions with clients. These types of dual relationships can impair a counselor's objectivity or unintentionally exploit a client's dependence (Pope and Vasquez, 1998). Yet some subtle boundary issues present ethical dilemmas that are neither obvious nor easily avoidable.
Counselor self-disclosure. In order to maintain appropriate clarity of roles, a counselor should only reveal intimate personal information when doing so is clearly relevant to the client's treatment goals, carefully tailoring this information to the client and paying close attention to how such sharing affects the clinical relationship (Bloomgarden, 2000). Consultation with colleagues and supervisors can help insure that the true purpose for disclosing personal information is to meet the emotional needs of the client rather than the counselor. One helpful guideline is for a counselor to reveal information about a personal life problem only well after it has been resolved, and not while it is an ongoing issue (Hunter and Struve, 1998).
Touch. Since a significant proportion of clients with addictive disorders have a history of childhood trauma (Briere, 1992), even a simple act of touch can convey a variety of ethically ambiguous messages. The history of addiction support is replete with reassuring hugs. It's very important for a counselor who engages in any form of physical contact with clients to have a highly developed sense of boundaries and an astute awareness of the clinical implications of this behavior. The initial stages of the therapeutic relationship may not provide sufficient emotional safety to ensure that a client can discuss any uncomfortable feelings involving the counselor's touch (Hunter and Struve, 1998).
Sexual attraction. Sexual involvement with a client constitutes a profound ethical violation with severe emotional consequences. However, occasional sexual feelings are not in themselves either unethical or even particularly abnormal in the context of an intimate therapeutic relationship (Pope and Vasquez, 1998). Counselors must acknowledge and appropriately process the existence of these feelings when they emerge in order to successfully understand and redirect them. The presence of intense preoccupation or sexual fantasies involving clients needs to be forthrightly discussed in consultation and supervision.
Recovery Boundaries. Counselors who have successfully dealt with addictive disorders in their own lives can often relate to their clients with profound understanding, empathy, and clarity. However, they may also be overly devoted to the treatment approach they personally found successful (Johnson, 2000). For instance, counselors who are strongly 12-step oriented may discount non-abstinence models for addressing substance abuse, such as risk reduction strategies, which threatens to place clients into a one-size-fits-all philosophy of care.
A counselor who is candid about being "in recovery" may give clients hope and reduce the shame that inevitably accompanies addiction. However, too much disclosure can be intrusive and distracting for some clients, and can even inadvertently generate unrealistic expectations or a sense of inadequacy (Bloomgarden, 2000). Counselors should therefore carefully reveal information about their personal addiction experience only in as much detail as is necessary to meet a compelling and clearly defined clinical need.
A counselor who is treating clients with substance use disorders should not be unsuccessfully fighting the same battle. Sustained abstinence from addictive behavior is an inescapable ethical responsibility for anybody working in this field. Counselors with less than several years of recovery time may easily lose objectivity when dealing with clients whose clinical picture mirrors their own personal experience. Heightened levels of consultation and supervision are highly advisable in such circumstances.
Nobody is immune to relapse, regardless of the length of time in recovery. A counselor who reverts to a previous pattern of addictive behavior must face the ethical dilemma of whether to limit, suspend, or terminate clinical duties. Abruptly withdrawing services from a client due to this (or any other) form of counselor impairment is likely to be deeply disruptive to the client's healing process (Bissell and Royce, 1994). Clients in such situations must be given the opportunity to continue counseling with another provider. There is no one answer to the problem of counselor relapse that is completely satisfying. In this regard the difference between a temporary "slip" that can result in increased self-awareness and an unrestrained relapse may be useful in determining a counselor's overall level of clinical impairment. These decisions should be made in a process of supervision and consultation so that the counselor is not relying on his or her personal judgment, which may be impaired.
All counselors who are in recovery from addictive behavior must establish whatever safeguards are necessary to ensure the maintenance of a personal program of sobriety. This may include establishing boundaries around support group meetings that clients are asked not to attend. It is not ethically appropriate for counselors in 12-step recovery to sponsor their own patients or chair meetings where they are employed (Bissell and Royce, 1994).
Supervision
The next core ethical concept is for counselors to have a structured process for discussing formulations, interventions, reactions, and inevitable difficulties with supervisors and colleagues. There is a heightened need for supervision and consultation for counselors who are working on the outer limits of either personal competence or established theory (Corey et al., 1998). For example, a counselor attempting to implement a new technique should utilize close supervision until it becomes fully integrated into his or her set of skills.
It's an unfortunate reality that not all clinical supervisors have adequate experience or knowledge in the treatment of addictive disorders. In such cases a counselor needs to seek out additional sources for case consultation.
One solution is to set up and utilize informal telephone and e-mail networks which can be established fairly easily with colleagues and contacts made through professional affiliations. When consultation is not available for discussing a clinical or ethical dilemma, a counselor should document in the clinical record a summary of the relevant issues as well as any action taken in response to it.
Honoring diverse values
All of the preceding ethical principles involve some specific actions for a counselor to take. However, the ethical dimension of counseling goes far beyond merely abiding by a procedural checklist. An ethical counselor consistently demonstrates respect for the client as a person by honoring diversity and appreciating the degree to which his or her personal values influence the entire process of counseling. Since counselors are in the business of helping clients change some aspect of their lives, the great ethical challenge is to effectively guide the process and direction of this change without undermining the client's autonomy. This ethical use of a counselor's influence is a skill that cannot be taught as much as developed.
Since every person's view of the world represents a unique combination of diverse personal and cultural perspectives, it is inevitable that counselors will sometimes hold views that are very different from their clients. No counselor is ethically justified in assuming that the way he or she views life is the way everybody else does, is the right way, or is the only way. However, some counselors act as if the way to avoid imposing their personal values is to simply not talk about them.
But biases don't lose their influence just because they're not discussed; in fact they often become less amenable to change. It is often more ethically beneficial for a counselor to invite discussion about his or her personal values while conveying an ability to respect and work with many alternative positions. A counselor doesn't need to be neutral about his or her values in order to be nonjudgmental (Coale, 1998; Tjeltveit, 1999).
When a client and a counselor hold fundamentally incompatible value orientations, the counselor should either refer the case or strive to help the client achieve the goals of counseling within the context of the client's value system rather than attempting to change those values. If a counselor finds it necessary to attempt to modify a client's values, this should be done to no more extent than is necessary to address that client's particular focus of treatment.
Counselors often avoid initiating discussion with clients about the ethical dimensions of clinical issues. Sometimes this reluctance stems from the fear of appearing moralistic, but it also reflects a general tendency of the counseling profession to be ethically inarticulate. It takes considerable effort and skill to engage in thoughtful dialogue about the ethical aspects of life, but doing so can have great benefit for clients whose history of addiction is marked by diminished personal integrity. While this does not guarantee a positive clinical outcome, it does foster the kind of therapeutic environment for a client to utilize the counseling experience to its fullest potential.
These guidelines are not an exhaustive review of every ethical issue related to addictions counseling and they cannot substitute for a counselor's knowledge of his or her professional code of conduct. Many clinical situations require a more detailed examination of the ethical issues involved or compliance with specific codified procedures, such as guidelines for research involving human subjects. Although counselors almost always operate within ethical parameters, these principles can serve as a helpful reminder of some of the important points to consider when evaluating the proper ethical stance to take when dealing with the many complexities of addictions counseling.
Bill Herring, LCSW, is a privately practicing clinician in Atlanta. He is a member of the board of directors of the National Council on Sexual Addiction and Compulsivity. He can be reached via e-mail at
This e-mail address is being protected from spambots. You need JavaScript enabled to view it
References
Bissell, L. and Royce, J. (1994). Ethics for Addiction Professionals. Center City, MN: Hazelden.
Bloomgarden, A. (2000). Self-disclosure: is it worth the risk? The Renfrew Center Foundation Perspective, 5 (2), 8-9.
Briere J. (1992). Child abuse trauma: Theory and treatment of the lasting effects. Newbury Park, CA: Sage.
Coale, H. (1998). The Vulnerable Therapist: Practicing Psychotherapy in an Age of Anxiety. New York: Haworth.
Confidentiality of Alcohol and Drug Abuse Patient Records, 42 CFR 2.14 (1998)
Corey, G., Corey, M. and Callanan, P. (1998). Issues and Ethics in the Helping Professions. Pacific Grove, CA: Brooks/Cole.
Herring, B. (2001). Ethical guidelines in the treatment of compulsive sexual behavior. Sexual Addiction & Compulsivity: The Journal of Treatment and Prevention, 8, 13 - 22.
Houston-Vega, M. and Nuehring, E. (1997). Prudent Practice: A Guide for Managing Malpractice Risk. Washington, DC: National Association of Social Workers Press.
Hunter, M. and Struve, J. (1998). The Ethical Use of Touch in Psychotherapy. New York: Sage.
Johnson, C. (2000). Been there, done that: the use of clinicians with personal recovery in the treatment of eating disorders. The Renfrew Center Foundation Perspective, 5 (2), 1-4.
Pope, K. and Vasquez, M. (1998). Ethics in Psychotherapy and Counseling: A Practical Guide. San Francisco: Jossey-Bass.
Tjeltveit, A. (1999). Ethics and Values In Psychotherapy. New York: Routledge.
Comments
Add New
Search
RSS
Cathy Duncan
|69.138.75.xxx
|2012-02-26 16:52:28
At times hugs especially where there is female counselor and male client mayneed to ve discussed immedialtley in order to maintain the therapeutic.
Not allclients need that " reasurring" hug
Reply
0 0
Cathy Duncan
- Ethical Guideline for Addiction Treatment professi
|69.138.75.xxx
|2012-02-25 16:44:47
employed as a juvenile addictions counselor this article reiterates to me thatEthical guidelines for Addiction Counselors must be excuted in order to maximizethe success of all clients.
Developing a counselor client relationship withjuveniles can be challenging and rewarding. However the one delima thatsurpasses all others working with juvenile is confidentiality. Even though theysign consent forms for releaselof certain information it is very important to besure they understand what information they are consenting or authorizing to bereleased.
Their misunderstanding can damage the counselor client relationship
Reply
0 0
Ackson mwimbi
- This is an important aspect of the course
|69.171.160.xxx
|2012-02-25 04:29:03
I dont think anyone should be allowed to practice or work in an addiction fieldwithout taking this course.
Reply
0 0
Mayra Schneider
- student
|160.253.128.xxx
|2012-02-24 06:00:06
I thought it was very important what this article mentioned. That is, that
nomatter how much time the client have been sober he or she can alwaysrelapse.
Also, especially when we deal with addictions because of the stigmais always important to keep confidentiality. And of course, before I startworking with the client, the client must sign a consent.
Reply
0 0
Cathy Duncan
|69.138.75.xxx
|2012-02-25 17:11:54
Also remember counselors can also relapse.
When this happens that counselorwill need to work on their own soberity. In doing so that caseload-clients maynot receive the support they need from that counselor and shouls thatinformation be disclosed to a supervisor or kept confidential, what about theclient
Reply
0 0
Gwendolyn Jones
|198.200.181.xxx
|2011-02-23 05:44:43
I'm glad that the ethical guidelines have focus on tough.
While attending AA/NAmeetings, I always though that the "hug" thing was sometimes toopersonal. I'm glad that there are "rules" because some people areoffended and to gain good rapport from the very geginning I feel that"space" shows respect for both consumer and counselor.
In addition, theduty to warn/protect is a very tricky guideline in any situation.
As a goodcounselor you just have to face the fact that this guideline will benefiteveryone involved.
For example, if a client has revealed to you that he/sheuses hyperdemic needle that belong to a family member who has diabetes, to stopa possible infection of diseases, this should be reported to authorities.
Reply
0 0
Gwendolyn Jones
- Comments
|198.200.181.xxx
|2011-02-21 08:35:56
Although I had a general idea of ethics for addiction treatment professionals, Ifound the article very informative.
It answered many questions that I hadconcerning "what if" situations.
In addition, the article was writtenwhereas I clearly understood the gidelines.
Reply
0 0
Jessica James
|67.61.24.xxx
|2010-09-25 15:53:07
I found this article very helpful. I too did not realize until this article thatcouples in counseling had to sign confidentiality waivers.
Reply
0 0
shari k. ketterling
|68.92.113.xxx
|2010-06-12 17:44:01
Excellent information. I'm in my Master's in Psychology.
All of theabove information I have covered in my classes.
Confidentiality is extremelyimportant and the codes of ethics is a must.
Thank You
Reply
0 0
Regina Barbour
|173.124.138.xxx
|2010-01-10 16:22:18
I found the article to be very informative and needful.
I was very surprised tolearn that if a couple is in marital counseling that they have to sign aninformed consent in order to share what was shared in their individual session.
Reply
0 0
alfred francois
|71.191.171.xxx
|2008-01-04 12:43:16
i found this article very informative
Reply
0 0
walterene garrison
|72.219.201.xxx
|2007-10-07 11:01:39
I was impressed about the way confidentially is secured by state and federallaws.
I was surprised to learn that when a counselor is counseling to a marriedcouple, that if one is having a one on one with the counselor he must haveinformed consent to reveal what was discussed in the session with the otherfamily member.
I was slso surprised to see that a counselor can disclosure hispersonal information with the client as long as it is well after it has beenresolved.
I was also surprised to learn that if a counselor has sexual feelingsthat might jeopardize the counseling with the client that he has to go intoconsultation with a supervisor and reveal this.
Reply
1 0
Write comment
Name:
Email:
do not notifynotify
Title:
Powered by !JoomlaComment 3.26
3.26 Copyright
