Green is the Color of Poverty
Home
Projects & Activities
Events
About GRIH
Donate
Contact
. . . . . . . . . ISSUES . . . . . . . . .
Native Hawaiian Self Government
•The Vote for Statehood
Government Accountability
•Elected Officials Visions
•Taxpayer Protection Pledge
Ownership Economics
Choices for Education
•Military Charter Schools
Consumer Driven
Healthcare
Common Sense Transportation
. . . INFO FROM GRASSROOT . . .
Grassroot Publications
Grassroot Perspective
Weekly Grass in Review
Grassroot
Publications
Book & DVD
Reviews
. . . . . . Blogs . . . . . .
A Dash of Calabash
Akaka Talka
GRASS IN REVIEW
GRASSROOT INSTITUTE OF HAWAII
Nurturing the rights and responsibilities of the individual in a civil society.
WEEKLY GRASS IN REVIEW   -    September 12,
2007
Green
is the Color of Poverty
A Message from Dick Rowland
It’s questionable whether or not various
initiatives pushed by the Green lobby will actually do anything beneficial for
the environment. Less questionable is the negative effect their policies will have
on the world’s poor, who will remain poor if the radical environmentalists get
their way.
Even
something as seemingly innocuous as the “carbon offsets” favored by Al Gore and
his ilk can end up keeping the Third World in poverty. According to a recent
headline in the London Times, “To cancel out the CO2 of a return
flight to India, it will take one poor villager three years of pumping water by
foot. So is carbon offsetting the best way to ease your conscience?” Why use a
foot pump in the 21st century? Because for offsetting to work, poor people
worldwide have to continue using outdated, nonpolluting technology at the cost
of their own advancement and prosperity. Some have fairly called this
eco-enslavement. What else would you call it when some poor person on the other
side of the world has to work extra hard just so you don’t feel guilty about
your SUV?
This
special edition of GIR looks at the forgotten victims of the Green agenda: the
world’s poor who are denied the benefits of the modern world by elites who
could care less about their well-being.
IN THE
NEWS - HIGHLIGHTED COMMENTARIES
Grassroot Institute is
regularly featured in news articles and broadcasts around the state. Here is a
sample of some of our recent articles, research stories, and other articles of
interest.
Environmental Activists Are Enemies of the Poor
By Roy Innis
"People here have no jobs," Mark Fenn admitted, after taking
documentary producers on a tour of his $35,000 catamaran and the site of his new
coastal home. "But if you could count how many times they smile in a day, if you
could measure stress"--and compare that to "well-off people" in London or New York--"then tell me, who is rich and who is poor?"
Fenn is coordinator of the World Wildlife Fund's campaign against a proposed mining project near Fort Dauphin, Madagascar. The locals strongly support the project and want the jobs, improved port, sustained development, and improved living standards and environmental quality this state-of-the-art operation will bring....
But Fenn claims the mine will change the "quaint" village and harm the environment. He says he feels "like a resident," his children "were born and raised" there, and the locals "don't consider education to be important" and would just spend their money on parties, jeans, and stereos.
(To read more, click here.)
Green
Activists Hurt the World's Poor: An Interview with Paul Driessen
By James
M. Taylor
GRIH Senior Fellow Paul Driessen is a warrior on the front lines of the battle against Third World poverty and disease.
As a senior policy advisor for the Congress of Racial Equality and a senior fellow with the Committee for a Constructive Tomorrow, Driessen dedicates himself to identifying and eliminating the obstacles that keep people in underdeveloped countries from breaking through the abject poverty barrier.
All too often, Driessen has discovered, the very environmental activist groups that claim to care so much about people in underdeveloped countries are the ones keeping them down.
James M. Taylor caught up with Driessen for a discussion of Third World nations and the environment.
(To read more, click here.)
FRESH PERSPECTIVE
Opportunity for Young
Adults:
Grassroot Institute of Hawaii created the Fresh
Perspective column exclusively to publish the work of high school and college
students. In addition to work appearing on GRIH’s website, their work is also
submitted to Hawaii Reporter.
Submissions are welcome from any interested young adult, and we will publish
work that is clearly written and grammatically sound.
For earlier Fresh
Perspectives please click
here.
Contact:  wendy@grassrootinstitute.org for more info.
TRY OUR BLOGS
Use
these links to access various topics.
The Mystery of Hawaiian
History>>>Blog Archives>>>Civil Rights Committee -- Akaka Bill Testimony
Dash of Calabash>>>Blog
Archives>>>Questionable Ethics in Ethics Bill
Dash of Calabash>>>Blog
Archives>>>World's Tallest Bridge Less $$ Than Nimitz Flyover
Dash of Calabash>>>Blog
Archives>>>Global Capitalism & a "Model" Socialist State
Dash of Calabash>>>Blog
Archives>>>Robin Hood in Reverse: That Sums Up the Proposed Honolulu Rail Project
Read what others have written or add your own thoughts. Click here for more
blogs.
LIBERTY NETWORK
Grassroot Institute of Hawaii is a member of an
extensive international liberty network of organizations that promote more
individual autonomy and less governmental involvement in human affairs.
GRIH Board Member Paul E. Smith's response to a
Dan Boylan Midweek column was published in HawaiiReporter.com:
"Down on Midweek's Dan Boylan"
Bill Burgess was on the Honolulu Advertiser Hot Seat, August
27th. For
those of you who missed it, the comments are
available by clicking here.
The Hawaii
advisory committee to the U.S. Commission on Civil Rights will be receiving
testimony in Honolulu, Hilo and Lihue:
--
Sept. 12, 1:00 PM, State Capitol, Honolulu
--
Sept. 13, 12:30 PM, Hilo state office building (NEW DATE)
--
Sept. 14, 1:00 PM, Performing Arts
Center, Kauai Community College
(NEW DATE)
On July 31, Grassroot Institute of Hawaii cosponsored a 95th Birthday
Celebration Luncheon in honor of Milton Friedman. The main speaker for the event
was Doug Bandow, prominent author and commentator on economics and freedom. His
talk will be shown on Olelo, Oahu Channel 52 as detailed below:
-- Monday, September 17th at 8:00 AM (For the early
birds)
-- Tuesday, September 18th at 8:30 AM (For the early birds)
It is well worth watching.
COALITION LETTER: GRIH joined Americans for Prosperity and 34 other
citizen groups in a July 31 letter to all members of Congress opposing an
increase in the tax rate on carried interest capital gains, currently 15
percent. You can read the press release here and the letter to members of the US Congress here.
UPCOMING EVENTS
All of the
Institute’s events, research publication dates and speaking engagements are available on our website.
REGISTER NOW!!! Saturday, November 3, 2007
Grassroot Institute of Hawaii Annual Meeting and Dinner
5:00 - 9:00 PM
Hale Koa Hotel, Waikiki
You are cordially invited to join us for our 2007 Annual Awards Dinner honoring Ken Schoolland and
Unsung Heroes
The
Pacific Legal Foundation, State
Representative Colleen Meyer (47th District), and
Paul
Vierling . The keynote speaker for the evening will be Paul Jacob, a
member of the GRIH Board of Advisors and Senior Advisor at the Sam Adams Alliance and Foundation.  An acclaimed
multi-media commentator, Paul hosts an online, radio, and print opinion
program, Common Sense,
which reaches a growing list of over 15,000 e-mail subscribers and is aired
daily by more than 150 stations in 48 states.
For more information about Paul Jacob, click here.
Click here to learn more about this event, and to register for what promises to be an unforgettable evening.
November 10-12, 2007
The 2007 Preserving the American Dream Conference
"Recovering from Smart Growth"
Wyndham Hotel, San Jose, Calfornia
Does the high cost of rail transit have you
down? Are heavily subsidized, high-density developments infesting your city? Is
utopian urban planning making housing unaffordable in your region?
If
so, you need to attend the 2007 Preserving the American Dream conference,
cosponsored by the Grassroot Institute. This conference will give you the
opportunity to meet dozens of expert speakers and activists from all over the
world. It will be held November 10 - 12, 2007 at the Wyndham Hotel in San Jose, California. Click here to learn more.
How fast does the state spend your money?
State spending is out of control.  Watch the dollars fly out the window.....
Have an Institute speaker at your next meeting!
From
taxation to education, from health care to transportation, the Institute’s
staff is ready to address your group regarding the important policy issues
facing all citizens of Hawaii.
Call (808) 591-9193
to check availability and make arrangements, or e-mail us at roz@grassrootinstitute.org.
Grassroot Institute is a proud member of the State Policy Network and Townhall..
SUPPORT GOOD PUBLIC POLICY
The
Institute operates only through the generous donations of friends and
benefactors from around Hawaii and the United States,
and even the smallest of donations can be used to accomplish great things for
the future of our beloved state.
Will you consider becoming a supporter today? It is quick, easy and
secure! Click here!
CRABGRASS
If an investor had given Warren Buffett $1,000 to
invest 50 years ago, that money would have earned over $27 million as of the
start of 2007.
(Source: U.S. News & World
Report)
Over seventy percent of the world’s beer is
consumed in China
