Expires: Wed, 15 Feb 2012 15:34:36 GMT
Last-Modified: Thu, 01 Mar 2012 15:34:36 GMT
Server: Microsoft-IIS/7.5
SPRequestGuid: 9c2d33fd-e6da-4b5b-8bd8-f359b788f8d2
X-SharePointHealthScore: 0
X-AspNet-Version: 2.0.50727
X-Powered-By: ASP.NET
Date: Thu, 01 Mar 2012 15:34:35 GMT
Connection: close
Content-Length: 49410
Colorado State University-Pueblo >
CSU-Pueblo announces finalists for provost/chief academic officer
Skip Navigation
T-WOLF Portal
Faculty / Staff Portal
Admissions
Athletics
Academics
Quick Links
About CSU-Pueblo
President's Office
President's Leadership Program
Campus Directories
Institutional Research
Fact Book
Interactive Map
Voluntary System of Accountability
Campus Construction Projects
Housing
Dining Services
Residence Halls
Learning Communities
Student Services
Career Center
Disability Resource Office
Financial Aid
Student Academic Services
Library & Academic Resources Center (LARC)
First-Year Programs
Student Counseling Center
Student Employment
Student Health Services
Student Support Services
Academics
Provost
Academic Programs
Assessment
Catalog
Course Offerings
Semester Notes
Honors Program
College of Education, Engineering, & Professional Studies
College of Science & Math
College of Humanities & Social Sciences
Hasan School of Business
Continuing Education
Library
Graduate Studies
Office of Research & Sponsored Programs
Human Resources
Employment Opportunities
Holiday Schedule
Policies & Procedures
Affirmative Action
University Services
Auxiliary Services
Bookstore
Campus Safety
Classified Staff Council
ITS Help Desk
Information Technology Services
Mail & Warehouse Services
Academic Affairs
Admissions
Registrar/Records
Faculty Senate
Academic Advising Council
Center for International Programs
Veterans Educational Benefits
News & Media
External Affairs
Insight Magazine
KTSC-TV
Press Releases
Event Calendar
Today
Visitors
Visitor & Transfer Center
Directions to Campus
Campus Maps
Interactive Map
Parking
Tours
Administration & Finance
VP of Admin & Finance
Campus Safety
Environmental Health & Safety
Physical Plant
Business Financial Services
Purchasing
Student Financial Services
Human Resources
Student Affairs
Student Conduct Code
Student Activities
Student Recreation
Student Organizations
Student Government
Student Judicial Affairs
Alumni and Friends
Give to CSU-Pueblo
Alumni Relations
CSU-Pueblo Foundation
Home
Press Releases
2012
2011
2010
2009
2008
2007
Page Image
CSU-Pueblo announces finalists for provost/chief academic officer
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
2/22/2007
Cora Zaletel
Executive Director,
Development and Communications
(719) 549-2810
ImageLeft
Image Caption
Page ContentFour individuals have been selected as finalists for the top academic position at Colorado State University-Pueblo. The following four candidates will interview at a variety of campus forums during the month of March for the position of Provost and Vice President for Academic Affairs: Dr. D’Ann Campbell, Director of Foundation and Government Relations, U.S. Coast Guard Foundation, Denver; Dr. John Mason, Dean of the College of Liberal Studies at the University of Wisconsin-La Crosse; Dr. Russ Meyer, CSU-Pueblo interim Provost and Vice President for Academic Affairs, and Dr. Phillip Shelley, Dean of the Graduate School and Professor of Anthropology at Eastern New Mexico University in Portales. Barbara Montgomery, who had served as Provost since 2000, stepped down in August to teach speech communication as a faculty member in the Department of English and Foreign Languages. The candidates will interview on campus on the following dates: D’Ann Campbell, March 5; John Mason, March 12, Russ Meyer, March 7, and Phillip Shelley, March 1. Interview schedules and copies of the candidates’ vitae will be available for viewing at www.colostate-pueblo.edu/provostsearch. Open forum sessions for the public will be offered from 4:30-6 p.m. on each of the dates in the Occhiato University Center Galeria Pequena. The Provost has responsibility for all aspects of the University’s academic mission, including oversight of all academic degree and non-degree programs, Student Academic Support programs, Admissions and records, Research and Sponsored Programs, Continuing Education, Information Technology Services, the Library, the President’s Leadership Program, and the Pueblo School for the Arts and Sciences. The Provost provides leadership and direction for all academic and academic support programs on curriculum development, research and outreach activities to ensure that the educational mission of the University is fulfilled.Born and raised in Colorado, Campbell has engaged in numerous academic endeavors over the past 25 years, including teaching, research, publication, organizing, fundraising, and administration. Her most recent academic assignment was as Dean of Academics at the United States Coast Guard Academy and as interim president of White Pines College in New Hampshire. She also has served as Vice President for Academic Affairs at two medium-sized, private colleges in New Hampshire and New York. She built her career as dean at two schools,four years at Austin Peay State University in Tennessee, and seven years at Indiana University, Bloomington. She earned a bachelor’s degree from Colorado College and a doctoral degree in history at the University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill. Since 2004, Mason has served as Dean of the College of Liberal Studies at University of Wisconsin-Lacrosse. Before that, he was Interim Dean of the College of Humanities and Associate Vice President for Faculty Affairs at California State University, Northridge. For four years, he trained accreditation evaluators and supervised the accrediting process for the Western Association of Schools and Colleges and the North Central Association of Colleges and Universities. He also has been a faculty member in the Departments of English at Western Washington University and at Youngstown State University. He earned a bachelor’s degree from the University of Northern Colorado, a master’s degree, and both Doctor of Arts and Doctor of Philosophy degrees from the University of Oregon in 19th century British and American literature. Meyer has served at a broad range of institutions, including a research extensive institution, an open-admissions urban university, and two regional comprehensive universities in a variety of capacities from director of composition and undergraduate studies to department chair, dean, interim provost and interim president. Since March of 2000, Meyer has served as the Dean of the College of Humanities and Social Sciences at CSU-Pueblo. He has served as Interim Provost since July 1, 2006. Prior to coming to Pueblo, he was chair of the Department of English at Emporia State University (KS) for six years and chair of the Department of English at the University of Houston – Downtown. The first half of his career was spent in various administrative and teaching positions at the University of Missouri-Columbia. He earned bachelor’s and master’s degrees in English from Ohio State University, and a doctoral degree in English from the University of Minnesota. Shelley earned bachelor’s and master’s degrees from New Mexico State University and the University of Northern Colorado and a doctoral degree from Washington State University, all in anthropology. Among his credentials are eight years as an academic dean, 13 years as a department chair, and more than 25 years of university level classroom practice, all at Eastern New Mexico
