Twenty20 Cup North 2011
Free Betting Online
Free Bets
Sports Betting
Entertainment Betting
Spread Betting
Betting News
Betting Blog
Featured Bookmaker
Recently Viewed
Twenty20 Cup North 2011
Twenty20 Cup Cricket Betting 2011
Twenty20 Cricket Betting
Cricket Betting
Sports Betting
Free Bets
Twenty20 Cup North 2011
The Twenty20 Cup North 2011 includes the nine counties further up the county that will be battling against each other for the two qualification positions. Twenty20 Cup North 2011 will be a very competitive group.
Our top recommended bookmakers for Twenty20 Cup North betting 2011
£25 Free Bet£40 Free Bet£150 Free Bet
£25 Free Bet£50 Free Bet
£35 Free Bet£50 Free Bet
The sole reason that Twenty20 Cup North 2011 is one of the more difficult Cricket Betting markets is because so many of the counties that are good in County Championship cricket will play in this section.
Twenty20 Cup North Betting Favourites
There are two clear Twenty20 Cup North betting favourites in this Sports Betting field. Durham and Nottinghamshire have shared the County Championship over the last three seasons and have two of the best balanced squads in England.
Durham are one of the Twenty20 Cup North betting favourites because they have the best pace attack in the country. The likes of Graham Onions, Liam Plunkett and Steve Harmison are all contracted to Durham for Twenty20.Nottinghamshire are one of the Twenty20 Cup North betting favourites in Twenty20 Cricket Betting because they have two key England bowlers in their squad. Graeme Swann and Stuart Broad should play big roles in the Notts side in Twenty20 this season.
Outsiders in Twenty20 Cup North Betting
There is a large group of counties who will all consider themselves outsiders in Twenty20 Cup North betting. Yorkshire, Lancashire, Leicestershire and Warwickshire will all be pushing for the top two spots.
Leicestershire are probably the biggest outsiders in Twenty20 Cup North betting because they cannot boast as good a squad as other counties in the section. However, they have experience of winning this tournament before and will want that feeling of success back.Warwickshire could attract a lot of attention because they have some quality England players to call in if they are available for selection. Ian Bell is one of the best batsmen in the country and he will be playing in the top order for Warwickshire in Twenty20 Cup North.
Chasing Pack in Twenty20 Cup North Betting
Northamptonshire, Derbyshire and Worcestershire will all make up the chasing pack in Twenty20 Cup North betting. On paper, not one of these sides has a squad strong enough to contend with the main rivals for the title this season.The main weakness of these three counties is inconsistency and this has held them back in the past few season. Northants, Derbyshire and Worcestershire
