Content-Length: 17587
Kentucky: Court of Justice - PR08182008A
KY Agencies
KY Services
Search TermsSearchthis siteJudicial Ethics OpinionsSupreme Court of Kentucky Rules and ProceduresKentucky.gov
Jump to Main ContentHome | Site Map | Legal Forms | FAQs | Calendar of Events | Contact Us
Kentucky Court of Justice > News Releases > Press Release
Jump to Main Content
Court of Appeals
Circuit Court
District Court
Circuit Court Clerks / Counties
Administrative Office of the Courts
Court Programs
Judicial Center Construction
Judicial Nominating Commission
Judicial Conduct Commission
Judicial Ethics Committee
Law Related Education
Research / Reference
News Releases
How Do I?
Kentucky Court of Justice
Chief Justice appoints Judge Doughlas M. George as chief regional circuit judge for Cumberland Region
Press Release Date:
Monday, August 18, 2008
Contact Information:
Jamie Ball Public Information Specialist502-573-2350, x 2233 jamieball@kycourts.net http://courts.ky.gov
Frankfort, Ky. -- Chief Justice of Kentucky John D. Minton Jr. has appointed Circuit Court Judge Doughlas M. George of Springfield to the post of chief regional circuit judge for the Cumberland Region, which is comprised of 23 counties in southeastern Kentucky.
Judge George, whose appointment was effective July 1, succeeds Judge Roderick Messer as chief regional circuit judge. Judge Messer retired June 30 to become a senior judge. As chief regional circuit judge, Judge George serves in an administrative capacity. His responsibilities include assigning special judges to serve in cases when presiding judges certify that a special judge is needed.
The Cumberland Region covers 10 judicial circuits and consists of Adair, Bell, Casey, Clay, Clinton, Cumberland, Green, Harlan, Jackson, Knox, Laurel, Leslie, Lincoln, Marion, McCreary, Monroe, Pulaski, Rockcastle, Russell, Taylor, Washington, Wayne and Whitley counties.
Judge George is a circuit judge for Kentucky’s 11th Judicial Circuit, which is comprised of Green, Marion, Taylor and Washington counties. He has served as circuit judge for the 11th Judicial Circuit since January 1998. He is also chief circuit judge for the four-county circuit. Judge George served 14 years as a District Court judge prior to joining the circuit bench.
Chief Justice Minton appointed Circuit Judge Paul E. Braden, who serves McCreary and Whitley counties, as vice chief regional circuit judge for the Cumberland Region.
The AOC is the administrative arm of the Kentucky Court of Justice and supports the activities of 4,000 court system employees, including the elected offices of justices, judges and circuit court clerks. The AOC also executes the Judicial Branch
