Server: Microsoft-IIS/7.5
X-AspNet-Version: 2.0.50727
Date: Thu, 01 Mar 2012 23:24:52 GMT
Connection: close
民訴記(100) - 顛倒是非 | JGospel.Net
真理福音天地信仰辯惑聖經研讀靈命塑造信仰詩歌講壇精選敬拜學習教會推介新聞中國美國國際財經快訊基督教福音站近況災難快訊世博專欄副刊科技健康娛樂趣聞生活心靈思語靈修生活團契天地輔導課程專欄民化島感情生活動人故事簡樸生活時尚潮流時尚美食旅遊荼座社區文筠見證安提瓜社區角聲園地手語課程論壇是非黑白有問必答領袖論壇網站推薦娛樂遊戲世界體壇雜誌好書介紹媒體動畫世界電影樂壇清純音符
民訴記(100) - 顛倒是非 (Daily Life : Kwokmanation)
國民, 民化島, kwokmanation, 民訴記, Tebowing, Tim Tebow, 顛倒是非
video is loading, please wait ...
民訴記(100) - 顛倒是非
By Kwokman
Date: 13rd January, 2012
Tim Tebow is an American Football star of Denver Broncos. I don’t follow sports but he’s been in too many news headlines lately to be overlooked. Reportedly he’s not a very good athlete but he won 6 out of the 7 matches in which he played so far. He would give all credits to God and that’s when the controversies started. Tebow is the son of a Pastor and a devout Christian. He would go down on one knee and bow his head to pray before the arena throng after each touchdown. Naturally this pose of a 6’3” prominently built athlete stirred admiration and criticism at the same time. People all over the world are posting on web pages pictures of themselves posing like Tebow. There’re web sites dedicated to Tebowing, as they’d call it. However, it’s the even more feverish criticisms that brought Tim Tebow to my attention. Critics are disturbed by his open proclamation of his Christianity and celibacy before marriage. A columnist on Jewish Weekly posted a message that said a Super Bowl victory by the Evangelical Christian Quarterback could incite others to burn mosques, bash gays and banish immigrants. The columnist is a highly respected Jewish leader Rabbi Joshua Hammerman. I must say his imagination knows no bound. Not in my wildest dreams would evangelical Christians burn mosques. Many Jews came to America after World War II because America was a free country. They can safely practice Judaism here and should respect that Christians have the right to practice Christianity also. You just can’t mistake a Jew just because of their unique attire. Then why would it be an issue when Christians proclaim what they are? Tebow has not done any more than expressing his identity. He didn’t pray aloud. He didn’t give a sermon. If stating his religion is enough to disturb you, do you also find the long coats of Jews and turbans of Muslims in the summer heat disturbing? As far as gays are concerned, it’s clearly stated in the bible that homosexuality is a sin, and any Christians would say it as it is regardless of Tim Tebow. At least Christians would not take it upon themselves to punish sinners. Regarding immigrants, I believe many Christians are immigrants themselves and why would they banish immigrants? Rabbi Hammerman apologized about his posting later but it’s like asking the jurors to ignore an attorney’s baseless accusations after it’s been deliberated in the court. Is it possible? Jews live in their own communities, study at their own schools and ignore public media. With such a biased religious leader, the biased views will only accentuate themselves. Rabbi Hammerman wasn’t the only biased critic. The former Broncos quarterback Jake Plummer also said that he wished Tebow would keep quiet about his religion. Riverhead High School in Long Island recently suspended two student athletes for a day for Tebowing in the corridor. The school denied that the suspension was motivated by religion. They said it was dangerous when students gathered to watch. When I was in high school, I’d seen much worse than several kneeling boys. That’s a pretty lame excuse. There’re students who dress weirdly like pop icons such as Lady Gaga and you don’t see any suspension because of that. Now a few boys were imitating an athlete with some moral conviction, one who vowed to abstain from pre-marital sex, and they got disciplined. What’s happening? A few months ago, the announcement of a retired football player about his homosexuality was met with standing ovation nationwide. He was seen as a hero. Now a young football star proclaims his Christianity and he is met with hostility. In America, you can openly talk about your sexual orientation, plastic surgery and adultery. You can divorce your spouse after 72 days of marriage and still remain highly popular. Nothing incites as much insult as being Christian. The military rule Don't Ask, Don't Tell has been abolished after Obama became the president. That rule no longer applies to gays in the military. I have a feeling Americans are trying to enforce the Don't Ask, Don't Tell rule on Christians
