
Billion Links - Kids and Teens: School Time: Science: Living Things: Animals
Sponsored links
﻿
Leading Translation Management System for Translation Agencies
Top Translation Management Software for Freelance Translators
Time Tracking Software
Word Count, Character Count and Line Count Software
Computer Assisted Translation Tool for Easy Word Count
Clipboard Character Count Software
User-Friendly Translation Memory Software
Terminology Management Software
Terminology Management Server
Microsoft Glossary Software
Dictionary of Acronyms
Social Network for Translators and Translation Agencies
Acronyms and Abbreviations Search Engine
Russian Translation Lab
Ukrainian Translation Lab
Jump to main content
Top:
Kids and Teens:
School Time:
Science:
Living Things:
Animals (1702)
[
A |
B |
C |
D |
E |
F |
G |
H |
I |
J |
K |
L |
M |
N |
O |
P |
Q |
R |
S |
T |
U |
V |
W |
X |
Y |
Z
]
Birds (313)
Fish (65)
Insects@ (112)
Invertebrates (239)
Mammals (681)
Reptiles and Amphibians (211)
Endangered Species (48)
Farm Life@ (1)
Marine Life (50)
Prehistoric Animals@ (91)
Directories (9)
Organizations (8)
Pets@ (112)
Stories@ (35)
TV Shows@ (14)
Zoos (22)
A View from the Zoo: Animal Facts - Offers fun facts, e-cards and stories.
African Fauna - Includes facts, photos and information.
Amazing Animal Articles - Articles about a number of animal topics, including evolution and predation.
Amazing Animal Senses - Examples of how some animals sense the outside world and the anatomical structures that allow them to do so.
Animal Adaptations - Provides a collection of links to sites about general animal adaptations, adaptations by biome, specific animals, and animal games.
Animal Attraction - Strange pictures of various beasts from the Washington Post.
Animal Corner - Provides facts and pictures for a variety of animals and their environments.
Animal Diversity Web - Learn about animal names, classifications by type, habits, and geographic areas where they tend to live.
Page includes photos of individual creature
Animal Doc Com - For kids who would like to be veterinarians. Animal health and care information, puzzles and contests.
Animal Exploration: See Who's Out There - Look at the animals in the world around us with information on their habitats, food, lifestyle, and life-cycle.
Animal facts - Weird facts about animals.
Animal Information For Kids - Designed by an eight-year old Includes information about biomes,animal fiction, current events, sayings,fun facts, links, an interactive quiz, and an opportunity to write in questions.
Animal Slide Show - A simple slide show with various photos of animals.
Animal Trial - View animal pictures with information on each animal. Test your knowledge with the question panel.
Animals - Graphics, quizzes and links to help students learn basic animal concepts. Includes protozoa and simple animals as well.
Animals - Learn all about amphibians, birds, fishes, mammals and reptiles from this page sponsored by the Sedgwick County Zoo.
Animals - Contains facts such as why a zebra has stripes, what makes a rattlesnake rattle, and how the fire-bellied toad uses its colors as a warning to other predators.
Animals - Contains information about animals which are not famous or common, including the sea cow, anaconda, tiger moth, and rice rat. Also includes articles and questions.
Animals Past and Present - Includes a history of animals that lived in Illinois 65 million years ago, 10 million years ago, and today.
Also offers an explanation about what happened to the dinosaurs.
Are You Thinking about Becoming a Veterinarian? - Frequently asked questions about how someone becomes a vet including career information, veterinary medicine, jobs, education, salary, advice, schools, and personal experiences.
Australian Broadcasting Corporation: Our Animals - Australian animals, their physical features, food, home and environment and social groups. Based on a TV series.
Australian Fauna - Information on a wide range of diverse Australian animals. Includes wildlife sanctuaries, quizzes and photos.
Australian Wildlife - Australian wildlife photographs featuring mammals, birds, frogs and lizards from Queensland, Australia.
Audio is available for many of the bird, mammal and frog calls.
AVMA Kids' Korner - Activities, games, tips, and other information to help kids learn to care for pets.
BBC - CBBC -
Wild - Find out what makes your pet tick, how to help wildlife, competitions, quizzes and webcams.
BBC Nature Online - Animals - A site for anyone interested in animals and the natural world around them. Includes special features, fact sheets, and online quizzes.
Bertie's Vertebrate Quiz - Quizzes, puzzles and problems about vertebrate animals.
Different difficulty levels.
Betty's Visions - Has pictures of different kinds of animals, and explains how they are different than us.
Bunyips - Fun Australian Flash site dedicated to the history and lore of the Bunyips.
Cool Animal Pictures - Offering tiger, wolf, dolphin and bird pictures.
Densmore Forest - Contains games, quizzes, and activities about animals. Also includes activities about mythical creatures.
Food Chains and Webs - What is a food chain? Find out why there are more herbivores than carnivores. Multiple-choice questions and an interactive activity to create your own food web.
Free Animal Trivia Web Quizzes - Each quiz selects ten animal trivia facts at random.
Requires Flash.
Gardensafari - Pictures and basic information about common animals found in the garden.
Also offered in Dutch.
Journey North: A Global Study of Wildlife Migration - Students across North America track the journeys of a dozen migratory species, share their field observations with classrooms across the Hemisphere, and are linked with scientists who share their expertise directly.
JungleWalk - Collection of animal movie and audio clips, websites, posters, and books.
Includes insect, birds, amphibians, reptiles, mammals, and other invertebrates.
Kids Go Wild - Explore a virtual zoo with animal facts, games, wildlife news, and information on conservation efforts.
Listen to Nature - Contains hundreds of wildlife sounds including birds, mammals, insects and soundscapes.
Living Organisms 2002 - Basic classification of animals.
Logan's Animal Adaptations - A site constructed by a first grader showing how animals must adapt to their environment in order to survive. Includes graphic organizers.
Lone Pine Koala Sanctuary - Includes games, coloring pages, and other activities about koalas and Australian animals.
Moosalini Quack Quack Krazy Kreatures - Pictures of seals, puppies, moose, and ducks.
Morris the Tortoise's Wild World of Animals - Original articles about animals, artwork, and links to resources, including animal webcams.
National Zoo Web Pages Just for Kids - Information on the many different animals of the world. Includes articles, stories, jigsaw puzzles and other activities.
North America Exhibits - National Zoo - Has lots of articles, pics and puzzles. Download pictures to color. Sponsored by the Smithsonian Friends of the National Zoo.
Photoarchives - Josef Hlasek - Features photo galleries.
Includes plants, birds, mammals, reptiles, amphibians, butterflies and moths, beetles, nerve-winged insects, dragonflies and other animals.
Pond Dipping - Find out about frogs, toads and tadpoles, newts and pond bugs, how to pond dip, and how to make a wildlife pond. Send in pictures and reports of pond animals you have seen.
Scott's Awesome Animals - Learn about and see photos of mammals, reptiles, and pets.
Site created by an 8-year-old.
SeaWorld/Busch Gardens Animal Information Database - Contains information about several types of animals ranging from mammals, birds, and even marine life.
Serengeti - Contains information on many animals living in the Serengeti such as zebras, lions, and elephants.
Skull Collection - Picture gallery of skulls from mammals, birds, reptiles, amphibians, fish, sharks, and crustaceans.
Also offers a chart comparing the sizes, a map of skull bones, and a description of how you prepare skulls.
The Animal Diversity Web - General information about all genres of the animal kingdom, from mammals to reptiles.
The Predator Page - Information about predators such as Great White sharks, tigers, and cheetahs.
Includes many pictures, links, and information.
Visual Dissecting - Perform dissections of a bullfrog and a fetal pig.
Includes a glossary and message board.
WWF
