Cache-Control: max-age=600
Expires: Thu, 01 Mar 2012 17:26:47 GMT
Connection: close
Intertops Announces NFL Betting Action
- Issue N41, 2010 © Casino Navigator
Home | Site Map | Contact Us
Casino BonusesCasino SoftwarePayment MethodsCasino Games and StrategiesCasino News and Articles
Issue N41, 2010
October 13, 2010Intertops Announces NFL Betting Action
Intertops is not only considered one of the leading online casinos in the world – this site also offers super sports betting opportunities for NFL fans who are keeping close tabs on their favorite teams this season. Intertops rolled out some super promotions where players can win top prizes, including betting tokens and even a seat to the Super Bowl at the Cowboys Stadium in Arlington, Texas in February. Each dollar bet on NFL action at Intertops.com will earn bettors one entry into the sweepstake and put them in line to win the Super Bowl seat. The Free Pool Competition puts players in line to win betting tokens worth up to $100 by predicting the winners of that week’s NFL match ups.
“Our bookmakers favor Green Bay to triumph over Indianapolis at Super Bowl XLV but current betting trends show that punters are divided,” said Intertops in a statement issued this week. “Twelve percent are putting their money on the Green Bay Packers but eleven percent are backing the Minnesota Vikings. Thirty-one percent are betting that the New York Jets will represent the AFC while 36 percent think the Packers will take the NFC Championship. One hundred percent would love to win our free trip to the Super Bowl.”
New Member for PKR Poker Professional Team
24 year old Londoner, Scott Shelley, is the latest player to join the prestigious Team PKR. The leading poker room, PKR.com, welcomed the young player after he won the £1,075 buy-in no-limit hold’em event at the recent World Series of Poker Europe event. Shelley took down a field of 581 other players in the event, eventually walking away with £133,857 in cash and a bracelet. Shelley has been working for PKR.com in its customer services group for around four years already, and is therefore familiar with this site’s operations.
“It's fantastic to welcome another member to Team PKR Pro especially a PKR.com staff member and PKR.com’s first bracelet winner,” said Simon Prodger, the Marketing Director for PKR online poker room. “It was a no-brainer and we are excited to see what will be next for Scott. He is a true inspiration to all our players. Watch this space.”
“The last two weeks have been life changing and joining Team PKR Pro has been the icing on the cake,” said Shelley. “It is a privilege and an honor to join the likes of the current team members and I can't wait to start representing PKR.com at future events.”
“I'm looking forward to showing PKR.com and its community what I can do,” he added. “I aim for some more big wins and, most importantly, increasing my bracelet collection.”
Microgaming Releases New Bingo Side Games
Three new slot games have joined Microgaming’s portfolio of side games for its top online bingo sites. All three games are hugely popular titles in their own right and will definitely prove to be a welcome addition to these bingo sites. The first game, the very recently released Lord of the Rings: Fellowship of the Ring slot machine, is the pick of the month at Microgaming bingo sites and brings plenty of entertainment and rewards potential. The other two games have been released in Mini Game format and will also appeal to players across the board. These are Thunderstruck Mini Game and Bush Telegraph Mini Game.
“Side Games provide a vital component in enhancing the Bingo playing community's gaming experience and we are constantly working towards providing players with enticing new player experiences,” said Neill Whyte, the head of bingo at Microgaming. “Enticement and retention are key for operators and these latest games from Microgaming, which use innovative technology, will mean we can offer players the very best in all round bingo action.”
California Trip up for Grabs at Class 1 Casino
The Playtech powered Class 1 Casino, it enticing online gamblers with a super promotion that will run until October 20th. In a bid to celebrate the Pink Panther slot game that is so popular at this site, Class 1 Casino is bringing players the chance to win a fantastic seven day, all expenses paid vacation to Southern California!
A statement by the site reads: “Reawaken your childhood memories of this funky cat by visiting the renewed Class1Casino.com website, which is classier than ever. Great fortune depends on players but fun and enjoyment are definitely guaranteed. Beside the grand first prize, other players in the top 20 will also win big from a substantial money pool, which is another great reason to join Class1Casino’s Pink Panther tournament.”
To enter this tournament, players need to play the 40 pay line Pink Panther video slot game. This game boast some amazing bonus rounds and includes the much loved graphics and animations connected to the film. The top player will win the dream holiday to California
