Our Second Mortgage Company Won't Subordinate Its Loan
Buy a Home
Refinance
Home Equity Loan/Line
Reverse Mortgage
Mortgages in Trouble
Budget Guide
Debt Options
Bills IQ
About Us
Buy a Home
Refinance
Home Equity Loan/Line
Reverse Mortgage
Mortgages in Trouble
Deal with Debt
IRS/Tax Relief
Get a Loan
Dollars & Sense
Auto
Home Owners
Life
Health
Credit Score
Credit Cards
Bad Credit
Tool Box
Welcome, ! | Logout
Login with Facebook
Our Second Mortgage Company Won't Subordinate Its Loan
Share on Facebook
Share on Twitter
2 Comments
Bills.com >
Mortgage >
Mortgages in Trouble >
Ask Bill Mortgage Trouble >
Our Second Mortgage Company Won't Subordinate Its Loan
Advice
Mortgage in Trouble Overview
Avoid Foreclosure & Keep Your Home
Short Sale to Avoid Foreclosure
Foreclosure
Deficiency Balance
Second Mortgage Foreclosure
Negative Equity Refinancing
ResourcesMortgages in Trouble Articles
Ask Bill Mortgage Trouble
Mortgage Company Rating
Popular SearchesHome Affordable Foreclosure Alternatives Program
Second Mortgage Foreclosure
Second Home in Foreclosure
Short Sale on Credit Score
Owe More than Home Is Worth
Judicial Foreclosure
The End of Subprime Mortgages
Credit Card Debt Foreclosure
READER QUESTION
I want to refinance our first mortgage, but the second mortgage holder won't subordinate. What can we do?
Read full question
We found a company that will refinance our first, but the second lien holder will not subordinate without a full appraisal. We have already paid them $150 and they won't return it even though they didn't do the subordination. What department within the second mortgage company would we write to request a loan rate reduction? If they refuse to reduce the interest rate, what other recourse would we have? Can we offer a settlement of 10 cents on the dollar? I noticed several other people in your comments have been able to do this. We live in Colorado.
Bills.com Resident Expert
Dec 12, 2011
BILL'S ANSWER
As part of its efforts to stimulate the US economy, the Federal Reserve has lowered interest rates to record low levels in 2008 and 2009, which in part has allowed banks to offer some attractive rates to homeowners wishing to take out a new mortgage or refinance an existing loan.
Refinancing when the loan balances exceed the property value
Although many current homeowners would like to refinance their home loans to take advantage of the low interest rates, the downturn in property values has resulted in many owing second mortgages or home equity loans that push their total current financing perilously close to, if not over, the actual values of their homes. In this situation, a refinance lender is unlikely to loan the homeowner enough money to combine the first and second mortgages into a single obligation, as the lender does not want to extend a loan that exceeds the value of the property securing debt.
The refi lender may be willing to refinance the first mortgage, but only if the lender holding the second mortgage or home equity loan is willing to give the refi lender's encumbrance on the property seniority over the second mortgage.
Allow me to travel on a momentary tangent regarding legal terminology. In Colorado, California, Texas and 18 other states the "mortgage" is actually a "deed of trust." Legally, the two are different, but a comparison of the two exceeds the scope of this discussion. Although it is inaccurate technically to call a Colorado home loan a mortgage, we will continue to refer to the first and second loan on the property here a mortgage because that is expected and understood by our non-property lawyer readers.
Subordination
Getting back to the subordination issue, without such an agreement, the second mortgage, as the older debt, would become the senior encumbrance on the property once the refi lender pays off the first mortgage as part of the refinance.
Unfortunately, unless you have a significant equity cushion, the bank holding your second mortgage loan is likely to refuse to agree to subordinate its encumbrance, especially if you are planning to "cash out" any of your equity by borrowing more from the refi lender than you currently owe on the first mortgage.
The secondary lender's position is already relatively weak in terms of its ability to enforce its security interest in the home, since it would be required to either pay off or otherwise receive the first mortgage lender's consent to proceed with foreclosure. Given its already tenuous ability to force repayment, the secondary lender is unlikely to agree to subordination to a "cash out" refi loan, which would eat up the small amount of equity to which it may be able to lay claim in case of default.
On the other hand, if you can show the second mortgage holder that the refi loan will actually reduce the risk of default on your home loans by reducing your total mortgage payments each month, you may find the secondary lender more willing to cooperate with you and the bank providing the refinance loan.
Consult with the agent handling your potential refinance loan, as well as any other mortgage professionals you know, to discuss the best way to present your plan to the second mortgage lender. The key is making the lender believe that the refinance loan and required subordination will ultimately serve its interests.
Appraisal by second mortgage company
In your question, you state that your second mortgage company has requested a full appraisal of your property before it will consider agreeing to subjugate its encumbrance to that of the company through which you are trying to refinance your first mortgage.
First, you should understand that demanding a complete appraisal of the home's value is not unusual. The second mortgage company wants to determine how much equity you currently have in the property (the more equity, the more likely junior encumbrances will be paid in case of foreclosure), and how the proposed refinance loan will affect this equity cushion. It will also want to determine if you are "upside-down" on the property (you owe more that the home is worth), as being in this position significantly increases the possibility that you will default on one or all of your mortgage obligations.
Here, it sounds like the lender has refused to subordinate, and refused to refund the appraisal fee paid. Unfortunately, I do not think that you have much recourse in this regard, as appraisal fees are usually non-refundable.
However, if you think that you were mislead by the lender, you may want to contact the Colorado Dept. of Real Estate and the Colorado Attorney General's Office to file complaints against the lender. While these agencies cannot guarantee you a favorable outcome, they are often successful in mediating disputes between consumers and businesses.
Loan modification
You are correct in pointing out that a Bills.com reader reported that a second mortgage holder made a lump-sum settlement with a homeowner for 10 cents on the dollar. Keep in mind that there are dozens of companies making second mortgage loans, and hundreds of thousands of second mortgages under contract. Your lender may not offer such attractive settlement terms.
As for what department at the second mortgage company you need to contact to discuss the possible modification of your loan terms (payment amount, interest rate, loan term, etc.), you should probably start by contacting the general customer service department. They may help you directly, but a good CS agent should be able to point you to the correct department (probably named something like "loss mitigation," though this will depend on your specific lender).
To read more about refinance loans, I invite you to visit the Bills.com home refinance page. I wish you the best of luck in your efforts to refinance your current mortgage loans, and hope that the information I have provided helps you Find. Learn. Save.
Best,
Bill
www.bills.com
Comments (2)
Sandor B.
Rockville, MD  |
November 04, 2011
I have run into the situation whereby my Home Equity Lender will not re-subordinate and accomodate my refinance.
In this case my refinance will be a lower loan amount, a lower monthly payment and will convert an interest only loan to an amortizing loan.
I have also expressed the ability to slightly reduce my Home Equity Line.
The appraised value of the combined loans will be 80% and the original home equity loan was made at 86%.
Have you heard of anything so absurd?
Do you know of anyone attorney's taking on law suits in this instance.
Obvious damages would be lost equity of the term and the lossed opportunity to reduce monthly payments.
(0)
Bills.com
November 04, 2011
By all means, consult with a lawyer who has real property experience.
(0)
Submit a Comment
Since you don't have facebook, please provide us with your location and a valid email address so we can answer it.
Without a valid email address,we can't reply. (Go back to login with Facebook)
You
First Name
Last Name
Contact Info
Email
Zip Code
Submit your Comment!
Update me when there are further replies/comments to this page
Type here...
Due to the high volume of comments received, we cannot publish and/or respond to every comment received.
If you have a specific question, we recommend you search our site for an answer
before commenting.
* Bills.com will not share, sell, lend, or make public your e-mail address.
We reserve the right to delete any questions or comments that violate the Bills.com terms of service.
We get a lot of comments! To help us show our boss that this is a valuable service,
so we can keep providing it, we ask you to do 2 things before commmenting:
Log in
Login with Facebook
(If you don't have facebook click here)
Like us
Submit your comment!
Update me when there are further replies/comments to this page
Type here...
Due to the high volume of comments received, we cannot publish and/or respond to every comment received.
If you have a specific question, we recommend you search our site for an answer
before commenting.
* Bills.com will not share, sell, lend, or make public your e-mail address.
We reserve the right to delete any questions or comments that violate the Bills.com terms of service.
Thank you for your comment.
Your comment will be posted shortly.
Thanks for your feedback!
What Can I Save?
Loan Type:
Home Purchase
Home Refinance
Cash Out Refinance
Home Equity
Property Type:
Single Family Home
Condo/Townhome
Duplex
Three-Unit
Four-Unit
Co-Op
Mobile/Manufactured Home
Credit Rating:
Excellent (740+)
Very Good(680-740)
Good (620-680)
Fair (580-620)
Poor (580-)
Articles
Ask Bill
Deed In Lieu Of Foreclosure vs. Short Sale
What are the pros and cons of accepting a deed in lieu of foreclosure in comparison to a short sale?
Voluntary Repossession
What is the difference between a voluntary repossession and one where the vehicle is snatched by a repo man?
National City Mortgage
National City Mortgage is one of the nation\'s largest financial holding companies. They offer a full line of mortgage products, including refinance, purchase loans, debt consolidation and all mortgage products.
401K Hardship Withdrawal
Are there any specific reasons one has to have for 401(k) withdrawal without penalty?
Freedom Debt Relief Information
Is Freedom Debt Relief a good option for debt relief? Can you do a review of Freedom Debt Relief for me for my debt troubles?
Hardship based loans
Need to apply for a personal loan due to financial hardship?
Bills has advice on hardship loans to help you solve your money headaches.
401K Cash Out Penalties
I cashed out my 401(k) and they took 60% and told me the rest had to go back to the employer. This doesn't sound right to me.
No Cost Mortgage Refinancing Explained
No Cost Mortgage Refinancing Tips and Advice So That You Can Get the Best Refinance Loan.
Important Mortgage Loan Terms
Mortgage loan terms can quickly become confusing. Having a better understanding of the language and terminology involved with a mortgage loan will ease the entire process.
Wells Fargo Home Mortgage
Wells Fargo Home Mortgage makes home-financing easy.
Buy a Home with an FHA loan
Learn How An FHA-Insured Loan Can Benefit You, When You Are Looking to Buy a Home.
Bank of America Refinance
Should I refinance my home with Bank of America?
Debt Consolidation
Debt Consolidation and How to Consolidate Debt - Tips and Advice to Help You Make a Wise Decision.
Refinance My Home
"Help Me Refinance My Home" -- What you need to know.
US Bank No Closing Cost Refinance
Can I get a no closing cost refinance with US Bank if I'm a customer?
Debt Relief
Debt Relief Options | Learn about and compare all debt relief options, including: Debt Consolidation, Credit Counseling, Debt Settlement and Debt Relief Consolidation Loans - Compare All of Your Debt Relief Options for free at Bills.com.
Fifth Third Bank Mortgage
At Fifth Third, we work hard to be a successful, principled, involved financial institution that serves its customers and community. Since its beginning, Fifth Third has provided superior customer service and followed sound banking principles.
Washington Mutual
Washington Mutual offers mortgage loans across the western United States.
See how they are rated by Bills.com and by their own users.
Government Debt Relief
What you need to know about Government Debt Relief and Grants.
US Bank Home Mortgage
US Bank Mortgage is home of the Five Star Service Guarantee. See what Bills.com rated US Bank Mortgage, and add your own personal feedback and rating.
HSBC Mortgage
HSBC Bank USA Inc. is one of the nation\'s 10 largest banks. HSBC Mortgage offers a full suite of mortgage and refinance loan products.
Read what our users have said and how they rated HSBC Mortgage.
Bank of America Mortgage
As one of the nation's mortgage leaders, Bank of America Mortgage maintains strong client relationships with responsiveness, innovation, and market knowledge. Bank of America offers a variety of loan products, including home purchase and refinance loans.
Debt to Income Ratio
What is the maximum debt to income ratio one can have when getting a loan.
Credit Counseling
Learn the Pros and Cons of Credit Counseling Services, and How to Make Credit Counseling Work For You.
Chase Mortgage
Chase Mortgage is committed to building vibrant communities, preserving our environment and promoting an inclusive culture that benefits our shareholders, customers, employees, neighbors and future generations.
Chapter 13 Mortgage
Can I refinance my mortgage while in
Chapter 13 bankruptcy?
Mortgage Servicer
A nearby abandoned house is being vandalized. How do I contact the mortgage servicer responsible for this mess?
Chase Mortgage Modification
What can I do to get a Chase mortgage modification?
NACA
I am thinking about attending NACA's Save the Dream Tour. What can you tell me about NACA and its services?
Quiet Title
What is a quiet title action and can it prevent a foreclosure?
Foreclosure and Re-Aged Debt
Should I continue to pay my second mortgage if my first is foreclosing? Will re-aging either mortgage improve my bargaining position or impact my credit?
Modify Mortgage & Bad Credit
Can I modify my mortgage if I have bad credit and significant credit card debt?
Can't Pay Mortgage
What happens if you can't pay your mortgage?
Owe More than Home Is Worth
Is there any type of loan program available to refinance an upside down home loan mortgage?
Mortgage Foreclosure Missouri
What are my alternatives in Missouri to foreclosure, and what are my potential liabilities?
Georgia Mortgage Foreclosure & Short Sale
We own two home that we cannot afford in Georgia. What are our options?
Help with Bank of America mortgage modification
Do bank's foreclose on borrowers that are current on modified mortgage payments?
Chapter 7 & Mortgage Debt
Will Chapter 7 resolve mortgage debt I owe the government?
Want to Move But Don't Want to Sell House
I want to move but I don't want to sell my house and can't afford another mortgage. What can I do?
Cash for Keys and Foreclosure
I do not understand how cash for keys works. Can you explain cash for keys for me?
Mortgage Foreclosure Arizona
What are my alternatives in Arizona to foreclosure, and what are my potential liabilities?
Strategic Default
Does it make sense to stop paying my mortgage on my investment property, given that I owe a lot more than it is worth?
Bank of America's Equator
Is Bank of America's Equator system working properly? What can I do when it doesn't?
Mortgage Foreclosure Colorado
I did a short sale, and now a collection agent is trying to collect the deficiency balance. What are my options in Colorado?
Bank of America Foreclosure & Mortgage Modification
I am in the middle of a mortgage modification with Bank of America
