Set-Cookie: SERVERID=; Expires=Thu, 01-Jan-1970 00:00:01 GMT; path=/
Cache-control: private
'Celebrity Apprentice' Episode 2 Recap | Essence.com
magazine
newsletter
e-rewards
community
sign in | sign up
Essence
Celebrity
Celebrity Spotlight
All-Access
Coffee Talk
Red Carpet
TV Recap
Obama Watch
First Lady Diary
Get Lifted
Fashion
Celebrity Style
Street Style
Lust List
First Lady Style
Fashion Week
Beauty
Great Beauty
Beauty Beat
Beauty All-Access
Ask the Experts
Makeover Magic
Hair
Hot Hair
Hair Street Style
Hair Beat
Hairstyle File
Makeover Magic
Love
Bridal Bliss
Eye Candy
Dating
Sex
Girlfriends
Just Engaged
Point-of-View
Real Talk
Chic Busy Mom
Modern Day Matchmaker
Plus Size Model in the City
Write or Die Chick
Girl's Best Friend
Celebrate!
Videos
Photos
Festival
Attend
Artists
News
Videos
Merchandise
Sponsors
Contact
Subscribe
Get your tickets for EMF today!
See who attended Black Women in Hollywood!
Get ESSENCE on your tablet!
Community
Facebook
Twitter
RSS
Mobile
Newsletter
Home
Celebrity
TV Recap
Must-See: Watch Jennifer Hudson & Ne-Yo's…Coffee Talk: Is Tupac Heading to Broadway?Whitney Houston Graces the April Issue of ESSENCEReal Talk: Let 50 Cent Grow Up10 Things You Should Know About Him Before You…Hot Hair: Tress TransformationsReader Q&A: CurlyNikki on How to Add Volume…Street Style Hair: All Things Natural Hair Care
Robin Thick Was Arrested For WHAT?!Was Whitney Houston Preparing For Death?Are Bobby Brown and Cissy Houston Fighting?Is Chaka Khan Upset With Clive Davis Over Whitney?5 Most Embarrassing Moments For Black People Does Actor Brian White Hate Black Women?
1.
Viola Davis' Natural Hair Wins Big
2.
Viola Davis Steps Out in Natural Hair
3.
My Baby, My Choice
4.
Are Apologies a Sign of Weakness?
5.
Hair Icons: Then & Now
Previous Article
Next Article
Sunday, March 13, 2011 | 9:48 PM
'Celebrity Apprentice' Episode 2 Recap
By Derrick Bryson Taylor
Episode two of "Celebrity Apprentice" was fabulous. However, it was a
difficult week for the ladies as Dionne Warwick and Dionne Warwick
continuously butted heads with project manager Lisa Rinna.
This week's task was to create a children's book and perform it in
front of an audience of kids. The teams were judged on originality,
presentation and age appropriateness. From start to finish, it was an
exciting two hours of television. Check out three moments that kept us
chuckling and glued to the TV...
La Toya, the Lion
For nearly a half an hour, Team ASAP deliberated and battled over the
theme and direction of the children's book they were creating. Lisa Rinna failed to delegate and lead the ladies — which we knew would be
hard, given their personalities. After battling back and forth about whether or not the
children's book would take on a deaf theme from castmate Marlee Matlin,
the team collectively decided Dionne Warwick's idea of a lion developing the courage to be himself was best. La Toya Jackson was voted to be the lion and
she made an impressive roar during the performance, complete with a
blond mane. But it wasn't enough to impress
guest judge Holly Robinson Peete.
Star Steals the Show
During the process of putting together the book, Jones recognizes
Rinna's weakness as a leader and seemingly can't help herself from taking control. Star
steps up to the plate and writes the children's book with the help of
NeNe Leakes while the team goes out to finish gathering props for the show.
When the group meets at the end to finalize plans, Jones brings up that
she wants her name on the book which causes a dispute amongst the team. Warwick soon jumps into the fight and says she deserves credit
too for coming up with the idea. SMH.
C'mon ladies, it's a team effort — enough of the diva antics. Everyone
surely participated in the project whether or not each idea was used. To see the ladies duke it out and not come to a concensus while
the men sailed through the process was agonizing.
Boardroom Brawl
When it was all said and done, the ladies lost to team Backbone. Rinna dragged both Jones and Warwick to the boardroom for
elimination. Mr. Trump pointed out that the main reasons the ladies
failed at the challenge was because of the book's idea not being
original, thanks to Warwick, and the book not being age-appropriate,
thanks to Jones. However, the fierce and bold Jones threw Rinna under the bus and let
it be known that she didn't do a good job as project manager. She
explained that Rinna had lots to learn and "Celebrity Apprentice"
wasn't the place to learn those skills. Rinna was eliminated after
Trump sided with Jones and Warwick.
One thing is apparent,after watching last night's episode, the Black
women on this show are tough! They're about their business. The other
ladies should beware and step up their game if they want to last. Go Star, Dionne, NeNe and Le Toya for a job well done — even though you lost the challenge.
We're looking forward to next week's episode where the teams go
camping. Can't picture these high maintenance women in the wilderness
— but we'll be tuning in with a bag of popcorn.In your opinion, who should have been eliminated this week?
Related Stories
'Celebrity Apprentice' Season Premiere Recap NeNe Lashes Out at 'Apprentice' Castmate, Star Jones Have Star Jones and NeNe Leakes Called a Truce? 'Celebrity Apprentice' Episode 3 Recap 'Celebrity Apprentice' Episode 4 Recap
Filed Under: TV Recap
add comment...
« Previous Entry
'Celebrity Apprentice' Season Premiere Recap
Next Entry »
'RHoA's Phaedra Parks Writing Etiquette Book
Add Your Comment
New Readers
Returning
First time commenter? A confirmation email wil be sent to you after you post your comment.
Name:
E-mail:
Members enter your email and password.
E-mail:
Password:
Forgot your Password?
Your comments:
Please check your inbox ... your comment will not appear until you have confirmed your identity via email.
Receive Essence Newsletter
Please keep your comments relevant to this blog entry.Email addresses are never displayed, but they are required to confirm your comments.
When you enter your name and email address, you'll be sent a link to confirm your comment, and a password. To leave another comment, just use that password.
To create a live link, simply type the URL (including http://) or email address and we will make it a live link for you. You can put up to 3 URLs in your comments. Line breaks and paragraphs are automatically converted — no need to use <p> or <br /> tags.
advertisement
Model Behavior
Selita Ebanks rocks a new hairstyle at BET's Rip the Runway in New York City.
Read more...
@bevysmith
Nancy Grace......
@bevysmith
Zac's 1st celeb crush was Tyra Banks, awooh the swirl!
@bevysmith
Zac Effron is a cutie and he's looking beefy aka a man FINALLY!
@KeriHilson
Hard to see in the moment but disappointment, heartbreak, devastation, failure, & loss are bridges to better days, not final destinations.
Upload a photo and give yourself a makeover!Click here to try it out »
advertisement
advertisement
GlobalGrind
Andrew Breitbart Dead At 43 (DETAILS)Tim Tebow & Taylor Swift's Dinner Date Night Revealed! (DETAILS)Pass Or Fail: Measuring The Success Of Past XXL Freshman Class Rappers (LIST)
huffpost black voices
PHOTOS: The 'Beauty In Black' ProjectThandie Goes Au Natural For Her Daughters (PHOTOS)Last Night In New York City: Dance Theatre Of Harlem's 'Vision Gala'
Hello Beautiful
Rihanna Tweets Sexy Photos From Esquire UK Shoot!Is Willow Smith Crying Out For Help?Did J.Lo Have A Wardrobe Malfunction At The Oscars? [VIDEO]
real black network
Breaking Newz: Man Found Dead In Front Of Rick Ross HouseBoomerang 2.0: Toni Braxton
