Date: Thu, 01 Mar 2012 15:23:51 GMT
Expires: Thu, 01 Mar 2012 15:23:57 GMT
Server: Microsoft-IIS/7.5
X-AspNet-Version: 4.0.30319
X-ITF-WebNode: 2
X-Powered-By: ASP.NET
X-Umbraco-Version: 4.6
Content-Length: 108047
Connection: close
Fed Cup - Articles - Honours even in Fribourg
Language:
EN
ES
Home
News
Latest News
Articles
Audio
Video
Results
World Group
WG Play-offs
World Group II
WG II Play-offs
Group I
Group II
Group III
Fed Cup Structure
Teams
World Group
World Group II
Americas
Asia / Oceania
Europe / Africa
Teams A to Z
Players
Player Search
Rankings
Current Rankings
Rankings Explained
History
Fed Cup History
Champions
Records
Award of Excellence
Heart Award
Organisation
Fed Cup Format
Rules & Regulations
Junior Fed Cup
Publications
Related Links
About the ITF
Sponsors
Photos
Audio
Video
Latest News
Articles
Audio
Video
04 Feb 2012
Tweet
[Print this article]
Honours even in Fribourg
MATCH REPORT
By
Clive White
Photo: Siggi BucherStefanie Voegele (SUI)
FRIBOURG, SWITZERLAND: And to think most observers thought that this tie would be predictable. It was anything but. The scoreline of 1-1 at the end of the first day’s play doesn’t tell half the story.
There may be a discrepancy of 1,433 places in the combined rankings of the Australian and Swiss teams, but the Fed Cup, as we all know, is a great leveller and the host nation came back to square the tie in a quite extraordinary second rubber.
Stefanie Voegele, leading Switzerland for the first time following the retirement of Patty Schnyder, and the higher ranked – by some 99 places – Jarmila Gajdosova went toe-to-toe like two old bare knuckle fighters with no quarter given.
The outcome was in doubt right until the end of its two hour 28-minute duration when the Australian, after saving seven match points, finally succumbed 60 67(8) 86.
Purists would have said it was far too hit-and-miss to be a classic and certainly it did seem as if neither player knew the meaning of the word “rally”, but it was incredibly exciting after the one-way traffic of the opening set and it had the Swiss fans hollering and cheering throughout the finale at the Fribourg Forum.
Roger Federer, Mardy Fish and company have it all to do next week to conjure something half as gripping in their Davis Cup tie here.
Australia remain the favourites but Christiane Jolissaint, the Swiss captain, expects the opposition to bring in Jelena Dokic for Gajdosova against Timea Bacsinszky on day two in the second of the reverse singles.
Five games into the opening rubber of her match against Samantha Stosur, Bacsinszky looked more like the one to be stood down.
Playing her first serious tennis since seriously injuring her foot in an off-court incident last April the young Swiss, understandably, looked out of her depth against the world No. 5 Stosur. But both she and her captain will have been encouraged by the way she eventually made a match of it before losing 62 75.
Bacsinszky lost the opening five games as her serve deserted her. Jolissaint could not understand why because she had served so well in practice, although credit to her for holding serve in the sixth game when she served three double faults.
She’s clearly a fighter, though, and despite surrendering the first set she then went on a run where she won five out of six games to take a three-love lead in the second set.
Although Stosur’s signature shot, the forehand drive volley, was working sweetly enough, the rest of her game has yet to return to the level of last year when she won the US Open. Nevertheless, she was still too good for Bacsinszky, even if the Swiss player’s ranking of No. 241 is clearly misleading.
Talking of rankings, David Taylor, the Australian captain, thought Voegele played way above her ranking of No. 138 in defeating Gajdosova. The two had never met before but there was nothing tentative about their approach to the match.
Partly because the clay court here is much quicker than most and partly because of Gajdosova’s hit-and-miss style the match turned into the tennis equivalent of a slugfest.
After losing the first set 60 there seemed no way back for the Australian but in an amazing about-turn she raced into a 5-1 lead in the second set. Both players ruthlessly punished their opponent’s second serve and even, on occasion, the first.
Then Voegele won the next four games and it was a brave man who could predict the outcome of this match. Even the second set tiebreak was full of twists and turns, Gajdosova taking a 4-0 lead before pegged back to 6-6. She eventually managed to win it 10-8.
The deciding set continued in the same fashion. It was impossible to predict a pattern other than that of an irregular one.
Stefanie Voegle (SUI) - 04/02/2012
Jarmila Gajdosova (AUS) - 04/02/2012
Captain Christiane Jolissaint (SUI) - 04/02/2012
Captain David Taylor (AUS) - 04/02/2012
Related content
Related news
Bacsinszky makes return against Stosur
03 Feb 2012On the comeback from foot surgery, Timea Bacsinszky takes on Samantha Stosur in the opening rubber in Fribourg
Youth v experience
03 Feb 2012Christiane Joissaint talks of her decision to pic a young and inexperienced side to face Australia, who boast a Grand Slam winner in their squad
Related ties
Switzerland
v
Australia
4-5 Feb 2012
View details
Related teams
Switzerland
Australia
Related players
Stefanie VOEGELE (SUI)
Samantha STOSUR (AUS)
Amra SADIKOVIC (SUI)
Jarmila GAJDOSOVA (AUS)
Timea BACSINSZKY (SUI)
Jelena DOKIC (AUS)
Belinda BENCIC (SUI)
Casey DELLACQUA (AUS)
External links
www.fedcup.tv
www.swisstennis.ch
www.tennis.com.au
Related PDFs
Scorecard - Stephanie Voegele (SUI) v Jarmila Gajdosova (AUS),
Scorecard - Timea Bacsinszky (SUI) v Samantha Stosur (AUS),
Bookmark with:
Delicious
Digg
Facebook
reddit
StumbleUpon
More photos
<<
>>
WORLD GROUP II FIRST ROUND
Switzerland
1 : 4
Australia
Forum Fribourg, Fribourg, Switzerland
R1
BACSINSZKY
v
STOSUR
2-6 5-7
R2
VOEGELE
v
GAJDOSOVA
6-0 6-7(8) 8-6
R3
VOEGELE
v
STOSUR
3-6 2-6
R4
SADIKOVIC
v
GAJDOSOVA
3-6 6-3 6-8
R5
BENCIC
SADIKOVIC
v
DELLACQUA
DOKIC
5-7 4-6
Full details
TWITTER
RT @swiss_tennis: #swiss_tennis fed cup team captain Christiane Jolissaint has stepped down and will be replaced by Heinz Gunthardt. htt ...
01 Mar
12:33
Reply
Asia/Oceania FC Heart Award - choose from Li Na and Galina Voskoboeva - vote on http://t.co/q6sHd0NJ
01 Mar
12:32
Reply
Americas FC Heart Award is between Catalina Castano + Florencia Molinero - vote on http://t.co/IoXq8TsD
01 Mar
12:30
Reply
Follow us
FACEBOOK
LATEST NEWS
Voting opens for 2012 Fed Cup Heart Awards
The ITF today announced a shortlist of ten players to receive the first four Fed Cup
