College OTR: lindsay lohan
Hannah Minx Takes YouTube (And Our Hearts) By Storm
Steve Carell Vs. Stephen Colbert In Even Ste(v)phen
Lebron James Joins the Miami Heat, Chaos Erupts
In The Future, Robots Will Fetch Our Beer
Giving a Whole New Meaning To The Word Cocktail
Recent Posts Most popular this: Day
Week
Month
Year
Eight Celebrities Who Felt The Need To Attempt A Music Career 			Posted by Brother Boomerang02/20/2009 10:38 AM
Once people get a little taste of fame, it’s hard to pass up. Whether it’s for a stellar acting career or scandalous political prostitution affair, the famous (or infamous) get used to the attention. One way to get more press is to branch off into other areas of celebritydom… such as starting a music career.
However, not everyone should be a m...MORE »
Five Video Game Franchises That Took a Wrong Turn Recently and Have Yet to Recover 			Posted by Brother Fincher02/10/2009 11:00 AM
Let's face it: no matter how great a video game series is, there's usually going to be a dark stain amongst its otherwise glistening record. I mean, even Mario has appeared in a typing tutor and a Dance Dance Revolution game. Luckily though, most of these franchises move past these bad projects to continue producing the sorts of games we love. B...MORE »
Celebrity Blogs: The Publicists of the 21st Century 			Posted by AnaMo12/26/2008 11:20 AM
Celebrities might not be very bright, but they’re all quickly realizing that it’s a waste of money to pay publicists to maintain their image when they can do it themselves for free on MySpace.
So when pictures of Khloe Kardashian wearing fur emerged right after her PETA ad debuted, she took to her blog to explain that she did once wear fur but...MORE »
Celebrities Say the Darndest Things 			Posted by AnaMo12/05/2008 12:17 AM
When stars aren’t off canoodling or drinking and driving, they’re making their publicists cringe, one sentence at a time.
Jennifer Aniston has been feisty lately. She talked to Entertainment Weekly recently and
gave us not one but two excellent sound bites. Regarding the constant pregnancy rumors, she said that it’s almost going to take the f...MORE »
Do This Stuff Before You're Dead like Gene Upshaw 			Posted by The Candle08/21/2008 09:51 AM
When it comes to video games, sudden death can be pretty thrilling. When it comes to people, not so much. Lately, we’ve had a lot of famous people cutting out early though, from Gene Upshaw to Bernie Mac. So, to be perfectly morbid, here’s a list of things to do now— since who knows if you’ll be around in forty-five minutes.
1) Make yourself a ...MORE »
Does Anyone Even Like Reading Articles? 			Posted by Char08/07/2008 12:57 PM
This is a social experiment, and if you clicked on this post, then you are already a part of it.
After being a Chief Contributer on this site for four months, I think I've finally got the formula down.  During these months, I've found myself putting tremendous thought into certain posts.  I would spend over an hour making sure I used just the...MORE »
Celebs That Should Enroll in The School of Life 			Posted by LCE08/04/2008 3:40 PM
A new “university” called The School of Life has recently launched in London and is set to specialize in “cultural solution to everyday ailments.” Formed by a group of artists, writers and intellectuals, the school will offer six-week courses at a going rate of 195 pounds, which is approximately $382 American dollars. Subjects will include life,...MORE »
Stars, They're Just Like Us! 			Posted by Samantha Beerman07/21/2008 1:08 PM
It’s easy to put them on a pedestal, but even celebrities are human (well, except Victoria Beckham, jury's still out on that one).
Though we may not see them around the quad or running for student council, these high profile stars are remarkably similar to the typical college student, just without the loans and whatnot.
So, with that in min...MORE »
Lohan Mink Victim: Photo Gallery Here! 			Posted by Steph05/06/2008 08:15 AM
From today’s NY Post:
A Columbia co-ed wants to know how Lindsay Lohan ended up wearing her $11,000 blond mink coat - and is demanding the "Mean Girl" pay for the impromptu rental.
Masha Markova, 22, believed she had forever lost the prized jacket - a gift from her grandmother - while attending a private birthday party at 1Oak in the MeatpacMORE »
Lindsay Lohan Parties in Chicago 			Posted by DJ PM04/25/2008 11:03 AM
Samantha Ronson was DJing last night at the classy Crimson Lounge nightclub and rumor is that her full-time best friend/part-time lover and NU's favorite trainwreck starlet Lindsay Lohan was also there.
Were any of you anonymous gorillas at Crimson last night? Did the rehab-prone, party animal make an appearence? And approximately how many lineMORE »
Search
Hot Links
What Position Will Tim Tebow Play In The NFL?The Timeless Art of the Keg StandThe Best Pictures On The InternetPictures of Grace Park
Popular Posts
Hannah Minx Takes YouTube (And Our Hearts) By StormSteve Carell Vs. Stephen Colbert In "Even Ste(v)phen"Lebron James Joins the Miami Heat, Chaos EruptsIn The Future, Robots Will Fetch Our BeerKnow Those Gorgeous Women In Magazines? Here's How They're MadeGiving a Whole New Meaning To The Word "Cocktail"Here's Yet Another 130 Great Arnold Schwarzenegger Quotes To Brig...The New Facebook Movie Trailer: As Melodramatic As An Emo Kid's M...Reuters: "Tired Gay Succumbs To Dix In 200 Meters"Twilight For Guys, SeriouslyDrinking Game of the Decade: Edward FortyhandsPlay of the Day: The No-Look, Off-The-Face GoalApple
