Editorial - July, 1996
Letter from the Editor(July, 1996)
Its hard to believe it but two years have come and gone since the
first issue of the Game Cabinet hit the Web. In that time, there have
been twenty-three monthly issues - I missed the April issue of this
year - with over 500 articles. I feel like I should thank lots of people
individually but the last time I tried that I left out poor Stuart!
So a special thanks to Stuart Dagger and, of course, Mike Siggins
and Catherine Soubeyrand who have been great about helping out whenever
I needed them. All of the Cabinet Makers have added their own bit of
scrollwork here or a new shelf there. Without them, the whole wouldn't
have been as exciting. I hope we can all make it another two years!
Thanks, again, folks!
As an aside, Mike Sanderson
brought us the whizzy birthday cakes appearing on this month's cover.
Thanks, Mike! By the way, Mike hates endless loops, too, but it is a
birthday so a certain amount of fuss was appropriate.
The German Invasion: American Phase
This Summer we are witnessing the beginning of a German invasion of America.
Mayfair has released a line of five new
German imports, including many Spiel des Jahres winners from the past
few years. Winning Moves has released Raj, an American edition of Hol's
der Geier, an interesting little card game (though I must admit that
I would be tempted to use the bits to play High Society, instead).
6 Nimmt has been released as Take 6. And there are more to follow.
The Mayfair series looks quite good. I could quibble about some of
the production choices. I'm not a huge fan of their use of photography
in place of paintings or drawings as in Settlers of Cattan. And I think
leaving the card colors off of the board for Modern Art is a bit of
a game play faux pax. But the simple fact is that all of the games in
the new line are produced to a higher standard than we have become
accustomed to here in the States. And the prices have been kept in
line with or even lower than those we are accustomed to paying. Mayfair
has done an excellent job and they've certainly earned the point position
on all subsequent import editions.
Winning Moves has made a mixed start out of the gate. Raj and Priceless
are certainly of interest. But the rest of the line seems to be marketed
at the Victorian Parlour Game crowd.
What's in a Name?
Which reminds me: there has been a running discussion in Sumo as to
what term should be used to refer to the sorts of games that are covered
in The Game Cabinet, Sumo, and The Game Report. Clearly, some of the games
fall into the category of Victorian Parlor Games. Taboo, TriBond, TalkSHOW, and
friends descend from that tradition. But most of the games are fairly
new and original both in form and substance. Collectable card games
along with the works of Knizia, Sackson, Teuber, and others define a
new genre (or genres) of games for which we have no easy label.
My suggestion (boy, I can really feel 'em flappin' in the wind now, boys):
Cafe Games. These games tend to be short in duration - 1 to 1.5 hours tops.
They're appearance is striking and, ideally, even beautiful. The individual
components are of high quality - durable cards from Belgium, simple pieces made
of wood, more sculpted pieces made of bright, durable plastic, boards mounted
on heavy cardboard with waterproof coatings. The game play is dynamic and
engaging with all of the players active as much of the time as possible.
The social aspects are strong as players interact and have a good time.
And the games appeal to a broad range of people - not just the fanboys
and the spielfreaks.
The Rumor Monger
I'm curious about ElfenWars, an obscure Alan Moon design mentioned in
this month's Sumo. Anyone know anything more about it? Apparently copies
have been changing hands at outrageous prices.
The Ravensburger/FX Schmid merger continues. Apparently, FX Schmid will be
using the Ravensburger production facilities for boards, boxes, and the
like while Ravensburger will be using FX Schmid's card production. So we
can look for even higher quality editions from both companies! The plan
for now is to operate both design groups separately. This seems like a
wise decision as Ravensburger is strongest in children's games while
FX Schmid is strongest with adult and family games.
Inside the Cabinet
Don't forget to check out Charles Vasey's article on
Chaos Gaming. This one really
struck a chord with the Sumo gaming world back when it was first
published. And I wonder if Mr Siggins shouldn't re-read it in his
endless quest to put the whole Settlers controversy to rest...
Newcomer Joe Celko fills us in on Chinese dominoes.
Joe's articles launch what I hope will grow into quite a complete
listing of domino games.
New Games in Old Rome
And last, but not least, I am now taking orders for the English rule books
for New Games in Old Rome. I only have a very small supply but I'm offering
them for $25 each inclusive of postage to the continental US and Canada
