Barracuda Message Archiver
Home
RSS Feeds
Solutions
Wireless Internet Services
Cell Phones - Plan Rates
Unlimited Home Calling Plan
Unlimited Local Calling Plan
Carryover Minutes Promo
Current Promotion
Nationwide Calling Plans
All-In-One Unlimited Plans
Internet Broadband Plans - Home & Mobile
Nationwide Data Coverage Area Map
Custom Programming
Dragon NaturallySpeaking
Voice Key Feature List
10 Professional
10 Legal
10 Medical
10 Whats New
10 Preferred
Overview
MacSpeech Dictate
Dragon Software Training & Support
Dragon NaturallySpeaking
Hardware Maintenance
Blog
Web Hosting and Design
Web Hosting & Design
Web Site Planning Checklist
Website Goals
Is your web site a winner
Webdesign Portfolio
Is your website secure?
Why Link your Business Website with Social Networks
Refresh Your Website Today
Promotions
Service Bureau
Payroll Services
Voting - Ballot Services
Networking
LAN-WAN Design
eSoft Network Security
Proactive Network Management
HP-MS Promotion
Hardware and Software
Computer Sales
Equipment Rentals
CyberPatrol Software
CyberPatrol Business
Current Deals & Promotions
Surveillance and Security
Service
Repairs and Warranty
New System Configuration
Technical Resources
Hardware Warranty
Technician Certifications
Support
IE 7 Support
Training
External Resources
Networking Infrastructure
CNet News
Game On
Hottest Downloads
IT News
Computer News
WebCam
Company
History
Personnel
Administration
Accounting
Purchasing
Retail Stores
Corporate Consultants
Service Technicians
IT Support
Partners
CPCC Commercial
Newsletter Archive
Employment
HP Solutions
Testimonials
Voice Recognition Products
Web Hosting and Design
Service
Contact Us
Locations
IVNet
Search
Sitemap
Solutions
Dragon NaturallySpeaking
Barracuda Message Archiver
Tweet
March 02, 2012
Barracuda Message Archiver
Email and IM archiving for storage efficiency and compliance readiness.
The Barracuda Message Archiver is an integrated hardware and software solution designed to archive email communications sent and received by users throughout the organization. The Barracuda Message Archiver automatically stores and indexes all email messages in real-time while making them immediately available for rapid searching and retrieval by authorized users. To immediately capture new messages, the Barracuda Message Archiver can take advantage of the journaling feature of Microsoft Exchange and other standards based email servers. The Barracuda Message Archiver can also import historical emails and PST files for a complete archive.
Improve Email Server Performance
Offloading emails, email attachments, calendar items, tasks, and contacts to the Barracuda Message Archiver significantly improves email server performance, reduces storage costs, and achieves greater operational efficiencies. Archived emails are easily accessible with the Barracuda Message Archiver client add-in, enabling seamless access for end users.
Immediate Legal and Regulatory Compliance
By searching archives and creating alerts, any e-discovery and litigation hold requests can be fulfilled. This is achieved without the integration hurdles of software-only solutions or security and network implications when using hosted services. With the sophisticated roles-based user interface and tamper resistant storage, an administrator can enforce internal access control to help comply with corporate policies and plan for regulatory compliance.
Cost-effective and Easy-to-Use
There are no per user licensing fees with the Barracuda Message Archiver. Through single-instance storage and message compression, the Barracuda Message Archiver reduces email storage costs. Energize Updates deliver automatic updates to the Barracuda Message Archiver's extensive library of virus and policy definitions. Furthermore, Energize Updates enable enhanced monitoring of compliance and corporate guidelines, updates to decode content within email attachments, and protection against potential security vulnerabilities.
Give us a call at 815-223-1052 to find out more about this tool.
TagsBarracuda Message Archiver
< Prev
Next >
Newsletters													 -
Networking
CPCC RSS Feeds
Most Read
Barracuda Message Archiver
3G High Speed Data Coverage
Personnel
Hardware Maintenance Options Available
Web Hosting and Website Design
Wireless Internet Services
Partnerships with Connecting Point
Dragon News
Speaking About Dragon
New Year, New Blog
Dragon Dictate for Mac is here!
I Speak Dragon! Contest Winners Announced
Nuance Medical Search Application Now Available
Dragon Goes Back to School
The Motivation Behind Dragon 11
Do You Speak Dragon?
Dragon gives designers a third hand
Where will we find Dragon next?
Mother Knows Best
Copyright © 2002- 2012Send comments and questions to: cpoint@ivnet.com
Corporate Office
1622 4th StreetPeru, IL  61354815-223-1052815-223-1057 (Fax)
Streator Location
107 Armory CourtStreator, IL  61364815-673-1057815-673-5401 (Fax)
We have 42 guests online
SitemapSearch our Site
Connecting Point Computer Center providing solutions for you in Peru, LaSalle, Ottawa, Streator, Mendota, Princeton, Spring Valley, De Pue, Earlville, Granville, Ladd, Marseilles, Oglesby, Seneca, Sheridan, Walnut, Wenona, Wyanet, Buda Cherry, Dalzell, Grand Ridge, Hennepin, LaMoille, Leland, Naplate, Ohio, Utica, Sheffield, Tiskilwa, Tonica
