Civil engineering jobs in Merseyside
Job title:
Location (Town or city only) :
UK Jobs Search
Contact   About   Register your CV
Home > Search for Civil engineering jobs in Merseyside
Results cover: Vacancies for Merseyside as well as Liverpool, Birkenhead, Bootle, Ellemere, St Helens, Warrington, Prescot, Wigan, Southport. Please scroll down to see all the jobs on offer. Not quite right search results?Suggested alternative search: Civil Engineer jobs in Lancashire
Civil Engineeering Estimators- DREAM JOB IN AUSTRALIA(Click job title for full job details.)
merseyside liverpool
north west
Brief job details...
Right now
I have a large number of civil engineering contractors
located or based in
Western and
Eastern
Australia
that have asked me to find them suitably qualified and
experienced civil engineering estimating staff
for their massively expanding contracting businesses in
Australia.
I need
Estimating Directors,
Managing
Estimators,
Senior
Estimators, Project
Estimators, Principle
Estimators and even
Assistant/ Junior
Estimators for the potential employers.
Many of them have work to tender for and price for the next 20-25years on major infrastructure schemes throughout
Australia.
This is a very, very serious advertisement. Please get in touch for more info, more details below.
I T Package Requirements:
( Estimating software)
Candy
Conquest
.... click job title for more details.
Civil / Structural Engineering Designer(Click job title for full job details.)
warrington
cheshire north west
lancashire
Brief job details...
Civil /
Structural
Engineering Designer - Warrington - £45000 - £50000
This position is being advertised on behalf of one of the market important consultancies in waste management within the UK.
The client would like to recruit a civil / structural engineering designer to be responsible for the designs of recycling facilities which include roads, retaining walls, foundation design and building design.
The
Main duties will include adhering to
Health and Safety, manage external design requirements and adopt a best practise approach within the civil engineering, waste management and
Environmental
Agency Guidance.
The job seeker for this vacancy will be expected to communicate and discuss the the project delivery managers, site manager's cost manage .... click job title for more details.
SHEQ Director (Civil Engineering)(Click job title for full job details.)Warrington, North West Brief job details...
SHEQ DIRECTOR
The employer is a leading Civil Engineering Contractor and they at the moment have an opportunity for a SHEQ Director. As Director of SHEQ you will be accountable for developing, implementing, directing and promoting the Company SHEQ strategy, and providing overall governance and advice to the Board of Directors and Senior Management team on SHEQ matters.
Key job duties:
OPERATIONS
and
To execute the development and maintenance of the Company SHEQ policy, Objectives, Standards, Procedures and Guidance and to provide a compliant basis for the effective management of SHEQ and
To provide SHEQ advice, expertise and training (where appropriate) to enable Company employees and supply chain partners
to comply with Company requirements and to develop the com .... click job title for more details.
Construction / Civil Engineering Buyer / Senior Buyer(Click job title for full job details.)Warrington, North West Brief job details...
The employer requires a Buyer with experience within the Constructio. Civil Engineering Sector.
The Buyer will be accountable for all material procurement and maximising supply chain profitcapability and its capabilities in servicing the operations. The Buyer must also have understanding of National and Local suppliers at subcontracting level and possess the commercial aptitude to improve and develop current buying methods. The Buyer must also be driven with a dynamic approach to building effective business relationships.
This represents an excellent opportunity for the right calibre of person to establish themselves in a respected and developing organisation.
Duties include;
and
Day to day procurement of plant, tools, equipment and materials using best value and bes .... click job title for more details.
HIGH SPEED CARBIDE DIE DESIGN ENGINEER(Click job title for full job details.)
merseyside liverpool east north west
Brief job details...
W E
AR E
A GR OW ING
AND PR OGR E S S IV E
M ANU F AC TUR ING C O MP ANY
F OR
T H E PR ODUC T I ON
O F
M E T AL
AND PL A S T IC C O MP ON EN T S
F OR
FULLY
A S S E M BL ED P AR T S
F OR
AU T O M O T IV E,
EL EC TR ON IC S,
H O M E
APPL I ANC E
H ARDW AR E
AND
O T H ER
INDU S TR I E S W ORLDW ID E
T H I S
I S
AN
EXC I T ING
OPP OR TUN I TY W I T H
T H I S C O MP ANY
T H A T
O F F ER S
S T A T E
O F
T H E
AR T C AP A B IL I T I E S C OUPL ED W I T H
OLD
F A S H I ON ED V ALU E S
W H A T D O E S
T H I S
J O B
EN T A IL?
H IG H
SP E ED CL A S S
A,
T HR E E PL A T E C AR B ID E D E S IGN
ENG IN E ER
T H I S
I S
A L E AD vacancy
IN D E S IGN ING N EW
T O OL S
AND
SUPP OR T ING CURR EN T PR ODUC T I ON
W HY
AR E Y OU
.... click job title for more details.
Air Con & Refrigeration Engineer(Click job title for full job details.)
merseyside liverpool north west
Brief job details...
We are currently hiring for an experienced mobile
Air Con and refrigeration
Engineer
located or based in Liverpool.
The successful job seeker for this vacancy will join a active maintenance team and you will cover their portfolio of commercial properties completing all planned and reactive maintenance to building services.
You should have served an apprenticeship in air con maintenance and have at least 5 years experience as a maintenance engineer on a commercial contract.
Ideally you should be multi very qualified and able to carry out maintenance on electrical or heating services.
Candidates must have
C&G 2078
C&G 2079
F-Gas
17th
Edition or Commercial Gas modules (Not required and essential)
In return you will join a well respected organisation
.... click job title for more details.
Structural / Civil Engineer(Click job title for full job details.)
warrington
north west
lancashire
Brief job details...
Your vacancy would be working as part of one of the engineering teams to perform:
Structural assessments of buildings and structures against seismic and blast load affects. Design of structural upgrades and retrofits. Up to £65K
.... click job title for more details.
Lead Process Engineer(Click job title for full job details.)
merseyside liverpool north west
Brief job details...
Michael Page are working with a Global Pharmaceutical
Business Novartis in hiring a Lead Process
Engineer for their state of the art facility
located or based in Liverpool.
vacancy description
The successful job seeker for this vacancy will be an apart of the Primary improvement / Process
Engineering team.
This vacancy offer is needed to fulfill objectives in order to optimise, improve, primary manufacturing processes and equipment therefore it is a business critical vacancy.
The Process
Engineer will be responsible for
. Ensuring the manufacturing process capital projects are implemented on time and to budget, you will be managing your own project portfolio.
. Identifying and implementing opportunities for improvement and optimisation of the plant opera .... click job title for more details.
Principal Safety Engineer, Civil or Structural(Click job title for full job details.)
warrington
north west cheshire
lancashire
Brief job details...
International engineering safety &amp
risk management company developing their UK and
European operations, following a significant increase in volume of work from clients across nuclear and petrochemical markets.
Today we are seeking senior or principal engineers, with significant experience across either nuclear or petrochemical markets.
As you will mentor less experienced engineers, it is important you have a verified track record in technical leadership and guidance and good project management skills.
Beyond this, you will probably be Chartered or
Incorporated with a real strengths in extreme load assessment across seismic and blast projects. Relevant qualifications in civil or structural engineering are presumed.
For more details,
call
John Edwards from .... click job title for more details.
Principle Civil / Structural & Architectural Engineer(Click job title for full job details.)
warrington lancashire
north west
Brief job details...
Plans and conducts independent work within a global business unit requiring judgment in the evaluation selection application and adaptation of engineering techniques, procedures and criteria. Devises new approaches to solving problems.
Broad
