Content-Length: 16552
Attracting Jobs
HOME
CAPITOL COMMENTS
E-NEWSLETTER
ADVERTISING
ARCHIVE
CONTACT
Jan | Feb 2012
Hot Topic
Federal Inaction—Education
Federal Inaction—Transportation
Federal Inaction—Immigration
Pensions 101
Business Incentives
Jumpstart Jobs
Efficiency Commissions
Health Care Reform
FEATURES
Who is CSG?
Technology & Redistrticting
Elections
Party Control
Regional Roundup
East
South
Midwest
West
10 Questions
Thomas V. Mike Miller
By the Book
State Court Caseloads
DEpartments
In the Know
Straight Talk
How To
Shout Out
CSG on the Road
Meeting and Conference Activities
of CSG, its Affiliates and
Other Associates
States Consider How to Get the Best Bang for
Their Bucks in Growing the Economy
By Mary Branham
The good news is this: The Great Recession ended in June 2009 according to economists.
But there’s also bad news: At this point in every previous recession, more new jobs would have been created, economist Zachary Karabell said during The Council of State Governments’ Growth and Prosperity Virtual Summit in April.
“That has been part of the cyclical nature of the economy,” Karabell said of the jobs rebound within 12 to 18 months of the declared end of a recession.
Some two years later, that hasn’t been the case.
The jobs have changed and many that have been lost won’t be coming back, Karabell said.
That fact has put the onus on states to revamp the way they go about the business of attracting business.
“I think states are trying to think more intelligently about job growth and the pros and cons of how you approach it and what’s necessary to compete,” Ohio Rep. Mike Duffey said.
Duffey sponsored legislation this session to do just that in the Buckeye State. That legislation replaced the state Department of Development with JobsOhio, a nonprofit corporation headed by business leaders appointed by the governor.
It’s a public-private approach to economic development that many states are taking.
But JobsOhio comes with a twist—development director Mark Kvamme is a venture capitalist and is bringing that perspective to Ohio’s efforts to grow jobs. Now, Duffey said, venture capital in Ohio is low. Kvamme will increase efforts to attract people who fund entrepreneurs.
“Entrepreneurs go where funding is and we want them to be in Ohio,” Duffey said. “We want them to grow jobs here.”
Incentivizing Growth
Ohio is also looking at the way it attracts businesses. Kvamme wants to move to a model where the state is investing in companies rather than the traditional method of tax cuts and land deals, Duffey said.
Venture capitalists don’t just give money away, and Duffey would like to see JobsOhio become an equity owner in companies that locate in his state.
“There’s increasingly a movement toward buying rather than giving,” he said. “That will not only keep them in Ohio, but also could provide some return on the value, long-term, for the state. You’re buying something; you’re investing in the state. You’re not just giving away money for promises that may or may not materialize.”
Many states already have some method—through the clawback provision—if companies don’t meet expected job growth, said Maryann Feldman, SK Heninger Distinguished Chair in Public Policy at the University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill.
Feldman said incentives have become institutionalized, and many site selection firms negotiate for companies, pitting states against each other in the process.
“Sometimes incentives make sense,” she said, “but they’ve gotten to be so commonly accepted.”
But the recent recession may have changed that.
Louisiana Rep. Jim Fannin, chair of the House Appropriations Committee and the state’s rural caucus, said his state has offered both cash incentives and tax credits to businesses relocating to the Bayou State. He expects the cash incentives will dry up in a downed economic situation.
Fannin isn’t a fan of such incentives.
“I hear it regularly from constituents: ‘Why do we have to buy businesses?’” he said. “It’s a drain on our tax dollars that I think is viewed somewhat as necessary, but yet people don’t seem to want to pay for it when they have to choose between health care, highways or education … It’s eating away at our tax dollars we should have for other purposes.”
The incentivized investment isn’t always a good one. Dane Stangler, director of the Ewing Marion Kauffman Foundation in Kansas City, Mo., said during CSG's Growth and Prosperity Virtual Summit that companies that create the jobs on initial location don’t always stick around.
Feldman agrees. “Typically, companies that you have to pay a lot to bring into a state are going to be the first ones that leave, the first ones to shut down and move out of town,” she said. “Then the state can be saddled with a big infrastructure.”
Fannin said those costs add up.
“There’s no question if we could actually see it all in some form … then I think it would be apparent to us all we’re probably giving away much more than we’re receiving through all these things,” he said.
Stangler said states should look to existing businesses for job growth.
“You don’t’ start with 1,000 employees,” he said. Existing businesses will be interested in different incentives than those a state is recruiting, but they have staying power. The Kauffman Foundation found in reviewing Census Bureau data that the age of a business has more to do with jobs than the size of a business.
Some states, like Tennessee and West Virginia, are looking at ways to help existing businesses expand. Others, like Arizona and New Jersey, are looking at changing their tax codes to help new and existing businesses.
Duffey believes Ohio is doing a lot of things right with the shift to JobsOhio, but he acknowledges this is a first step—and the model is just part of it.
“It’s all for naught if you don’t have a fundamentally attractive state,” he said. “You have to be attractive from a services and quality of life standpoint. But you also have to be attractive from a cost standpoint. Companies aren’t going to want to go to your state if energy costs are high or if land costs are high or if your taxes are high.”
Sticking To It
While states are making changes in response to the Great Recession and the changing economic model in which businesses operate, they have to stick with the effort to attract jobs, Duffey said.
“There is this complete illusion that government leaders can wave a magic wand and instantaneously overnight create jobs,” he said.
“You can’t snap your fingers and bring jobs to a state overnight.”
Karabell, the economist, said structural unemployment may be long-term because of the changing face of jobs in the US
