Server: Microsoft-IIS/7.0
Date: Thu, 01 Mar 2012 21:57:15 GMT
Connection: close
Opinion: Does County Cricket Need A Transfer System? - Cricket World
Live Scores
Stats
Cricket MVP Ratings
Overall MVP Cricket Ratings
Test MVP Cricket Ratings
ODI MVP Cricket Ratings
Twenty20 Cricket Ratings
About MVP Cricket Ratings
Ratings Cricket Forum
Women's ODI MVP Ratings
Club Cricket MVP Ratings
Grounds
On This Day
Player Profiles
Records
Scorecards
Search Scorecards
Search Players
Club Cricket Results & Tables
Club Cricket Performances
TV
Ashes TV
County Cricket TV
Cricket TV Highlights
Cricket World Cup TV
Cricket World TV Googlies
CW TV On YouTube
Fire In Babylon
Latest Cricket TV News
Mr Predictor TV
On This Day TV
TV Interviews
TV Player Profiles
TV Features
Where Is Jim?
Cricket Videos
IPL TV
Radio
Cricket Podcasts
Cricket Audio Archive
Around The World
County Cricket
Derbyshire
Durham
Essex
Glamorgan
Gloucestershire
Hampshire
Kent
Lancashire
Leicestershire
Middlesex
Northamptonshire
Nottinghamshire
Somerset
Surrey
Sussex
Warwickshire
Worcestershire
Yorkshire
Edgbaston Stadium
Latest News
Edgbaston TV
Interviews
Legends
Legends TV
Stadium Videos
Starter's Guide To Cricket
Starter's Guide To Cricket Videos
News Archive
Player Of The Week
News
Interview Archive
Player Of The Week
Women's Cricket
ICC News
MCC News
Chance To Shine
NUSC-CCElite
Services Cricket
The Lord's Taverners
WBCC
Countries
Australia
Bangladesh
England
ECB News
County Cricket
Club Cricket News
East Midlands & SE
North East & West
W Midlands, Wales, SW
Youth Cricket
Women's
Disabled
Club & Ground
Officials
Community Cricket
India
New Zealand
Pakistan
South Africa
Sri Lanka
West Indies
Antigua & Barbuda
Barbados
Grenada
Guyana
Jamaica
St. Kitts
St.Lucia
Trinidad and Tobago
Zimbabwe
Kenya
Ireland
Scotland
Europe
Asia
Rest Of The World
Series
Commonwealth Bank Series 2012
Cricket World Cup 2015
England Women In New Zealand
IPL 2012
Chennai Super Kings
Deccan Chargers
Delhi Daredevils
Kings XI Punjab
Kolkata Knight Riders
Mumbai Indians
Pune Warriors
Rajasthan Royals
Royal Challengers Bangalore
Pakistan v England
South Africa In New Zealand
Series Archive
Archive Series 2011/12
Archive Series 2011
Archive Series 2010/11
Archive Series 2010
Archive Series 2009/10
Archive Series 2009
Archive Series 2008/9
Archive Series 2008
Archive Series 2007/8
Archive Series 2007
Archive Series 2006/7
Photos
Coaching
PitchVision Academy
Coaching Forum
Betting
Lifestyle
Cricket Accommodation
Cricket Books
Cricket Equipment
Cricket Health
Cricket Travel
Cricket New Products
Forum
Mobile
iPhone App
Android App
Mobile Website
Australia In Sri Lanka
Bangladesh In Zimbabwe
County Cricket
India In England
India In West Indies 2011
IPL 2011
Pakistan In West Indies 2011
Pakistan In Zimbabwe
Sri Lanka In England 2011
West Indies In England
Women's Quadrangular Series 2011
Home
» Series » Series Archive » Archive Series 2011 » County Cricket
Live Cricket Streaming
CB Series
PAK v ENG
SOC2020
CW Blog
CricDirect
Competitions
Groundcare
Club Cricket
Opinion: Does County Cricket Need A Transfer System?
7 October 2011
Opinion: Does Cricket Need A Transfer System?James Taylor's predicted move away from Leicestershire re-opens the debate about a need for a transfer system in cricket.©Action ImagesCounty cricket is at a crossroads. Does it go the way of football and allow the moneyed clubs to procure all the best and brightest young talent, thus making any battle for trophies a three or four-horse race? Does it want to lose its long and proud tradition whereby any of the 18 counties can realistically win the Championship? In short, does our summer game want to fully embrace capitalism and all the free-market obligations that that entails?
I think most fans of the county game would answer no to those questions. We want to retain the competitiveness that has given us gripping climaxes to last two county seasons. And we want to be charmed by the heart-warming stories of cash-strapped clubs being led to title glory by long-serving and loyal legends of the game. So what is the solution?
Winston Churchill once said that capitalism is the unequal sharing of blessings. In the case of cricket clubs those blessings are the likes of the Taylors, the Denlys, and, who knows, in the future, the Shiv Thakors and the Reece Topleys.
In a normal profession those players would naturally gravitate towards the best paid jobs and leave their educators, usually the state, behind. They would then, of course, reward those educators for their efforts in the form of taxes and that money would then be used to train the next generation – and so the cycle continues.
In cricket, unlike even in premiership football - that Mecca to capitalism - this doesn’t happen. The likes of Leicestershire or Kent do not currently receive any of football’s compensation or solidarity payments when they lose their best and brightest young talent to the Manchester Uniteds of cricket, meaning that they suffer a gradual depletion of their resources which causes the problems to escalate.
Until recently, this lack of reward didn’t matter as players were reluctant to move clubs and the financial rewards for staging international cricket – the single most important factor in making some clubs so rich - were not so high.
That has all changed over the past decade or so, with the likes of Test match endowed Surrey now able to spend three times as much as the likes of Test matchless Kent on player salaries. This means that, as well as producing their own players, Surrey are able to poach the best young talent from the smaller counties without paying any form of compensation for the training and nurturing that the player has received through that county’s Academy system.
Numerous moves have been suggested over the past few years, including salary caps and the like, but nothing has really changed the view that county cricket is sleepwalking into a two-tier oblivion.
Perhaps the only answer is to adopt a transfer system similar to that used in football – only to perhaps go further – so that the smaller counties can be compensated for their losses. After all, the principle aim of counties – unlike for premiership football teams - is not to win trophies but to produce England players, so why should Leicestershire et al be penalised financially for doing just that?
Daniel Grummitt
© Cricket World 2011
Open an account with bet365 today and qualify for up to £200 in free bets with our fantastic 100% Deposit Bonus.
County CricketCounty Cricketers Abroad Part III
With many of England's county cricketers now heading home from their off-season destinations in time for Christmas, we take our monthly look at how they have been performing for their franchises or states so far in the 2011-12 season.
Pietersen To Stay With Surrey Indefinitely
England batsman Kevin Pietersen has extended his contract with Surrey until the end of his international career.
Pietersen, who first signed for the club on a one-year deal in 2011 following a loan spell in 2010, will play for the Brown Caps until he no longer has an ECB Central Contract.
Woakes Extends Bears Contract
Warwickshire and England seam-bowler Chris Woakes has signed a new two-year deal with the county which will see him remain with the club until at least the end of the 2014 season.
Ben Harmison Signs Kent Deal
Kent have signed former Durham all-rounder Ben Harmsion on a contract of undisclosed length ahead of the 2012 season.
Tomlinson And Rossington Extend County Contracts
Middlesex wicket-keeper Adam Rossington and Hampshire seam bowler James Tomlinson have both signed contract extensions with their respective counties.
Rossington, an 18 year-old who has represented England’s Under-19 side, has extended his existing contract by one year to the end of 2013, while Tomlinson has also signed until the end of the 2013 season.
Philander Signs For Somerset
Somerset have tentatively announced that they have secured the services of South African all-rounder Vernon Philander as their overseas player for the first two months of the 2012 season. Philander's availability is dependent on him not being selected to play in the Indian Premier League.
LV= County Championship
County Championship 2011
Fixtures & ResultsPoints TableBatting AveragesBowling AveragesRecords
Clydesdale Bank 40
Clydesdale Bank 40 2011
Fixtures & ResultsPoints TablesBatting AveragesBowling AveragesHighlights
Friends Life t20
Fixtures & ResultsPoints TablesBatting AveragesBowling AveragesHighlights
Counties
Counties
DerbyshireDurhamEssexGlamorganGloucestershireHampshireKentLancashireLeicestershireMiddlesexNorthamptonshireNottinghamshireSomersetSurreySussexWarwickshireWorcestershireYorkshire
Cricket World - For all the latest international cricket news, live cricket scores, cricket videos, cricket highlights, cricket radio and cricket TV, live cricket commentary, exclusive interviews, women's cricket, club cricket, youth cricket and disabled cricket news.Cricket scores and cricket video news from England, Australia, India, Pakistan, Sri Lanka, Bangladesh, West Indies, South Africa, New Zealand, Kenya, Europe and other ICC
