Learn Arabic
-
Beginner Lesson #10 - We have to go.
This feature requires an Active Premium
subscription. Sign in or register for a 7-Day Free Trial today. Click link for
more info.
This feature requires an Active Basic
subscription. Sign in or register for a 7-Day Free Trial today. Click link
for more info.
Login
Password
Remember me
Audio Lessons
Video Lessons
Reference Materials
IntroductionDictionaries  Arabic Dictionary with AudioGrammar  Grammar BankArabic Basics  About Arabic  Arabic AlphabetVocabulary Tools  Arabic Word of the Day Free  Arabic Core 100 Word List Free  Arabic Core 200 Word List  Arabic Core 300 Word List  Arabic Core 400 Word List  Arabic Core 500 Word List  Arabic Core 600 Word List  Arabic Core 700 Word List  Arabic Core 800 Word List  Arabic Core 900 Word List  Arabic Core 1000 Word List  Arabic Core 2000 Word ListMobile Applications  iPhone, iPad, Android Apps
My Tools
My Word BankMy Flashcards My Lessons
My Feed
My Notes
My Settings
Help Center
Welcome to the Help CenterGet Started with ArabicPod101First Steps with the SystemMy AccountHow to DownloadBasic and Premium iTunes Feed SetupInnovative Language on your GadgetBilling and SubscriptionsSubscriptionsBillingSubscription Info and PricingFAQ, Tech Support and MoreMost Frequently Asked QuestionsTech SupportText User GuideVideo User GuidesMore about Innovative LanguageThe ArabicPod101 SystemLessons and Methodology
Arabic Word of the Day
Get Widget
Learn Arabic
5 Most Recent Forum Posts
Anyone around?
This forum looks kind of dead
8:53 am						by
xyzt444943
Differentiating between standard Arabic and regional dialect
12:01 am						by
ahha3425
Hi
3:55 am						by
canadaandrew143160
The best place to Study Arabic language
9:25 am						by
qortobanet7837
How to type in Arabic??
10:02 am						by
jackeeokoli7946
Free Public Feeds
Select Public Feeds
iTunes
Google
RSS 2.0 Feeds
Select an RSS Feed
All Comments
Recent Lessons
Social Networking
Find us on Facebook
Follow us on Twitter
Watch us on YouTube
All
Introductory
Beginner Intermediate Advanced
Extra Fun
Click Here for Advanced Search
Show Newest Lesson First
Show Oldest Lesson First
By Type:
All
Absolute Beginner Season 1
Advanced Audio Blog 1
Advanced Audio Blog 2
All About
Basic Bootcamp
Beginner Season 1
Culture Class
Learn with Pictures and Video
Newbie Season 1
Newbie Season 2
News
Pronunciation
Survival Phrases
Throwback Thursday
Top 25 Arabic Questions You Need to Know
Video 1
Video 2
Ascending
Descending
By Month:
2008 6 - 2012 3 March 2012
February 2012
January 2012
December 2011
November 2011
October 2011
September 2011
August 2011
July 2011
June 2011
May 2011
April 2011
March 2011
February 2011
January 2011
December 2010
November 2010
October 2010
September 2010
August 2010
July 2010
June 2010
May 2010
April 2010
March 2010
February 2010
January 2010
December 2009
November 2009
October 2009
September 2009
August 2009
July 2009
June 2009
May 2009
April 2009
March 2009
February 2009
January 2009
December 2008
November 2008
October 2008
September 2008
August 2008
July 2008
June 2008
Ascending
Descending
By Keyword:
Ascending
Descending
Beginner Lesson #10 - We have to go.
Level: Beginner Season 1
Hello and welcome back to the Beginner Series at ArabicPod101.com. In this series, we explain the grammar of the Arabic language and give you some insight into Arabic culture.
In today’s lesson, we’re going to learn to conjugate the first person plural. Also, we will learn to talk about our abilities and obligations and say things such as “I can sing” and “I have to work.”
Join us for this lesson and when you stop by, don’t forget to leave us a post!
Premium Members
Dialog
|
Play
|
Popup
Review Track
|
Play
|
Popup
Premium Learning Center
Premium Lesson Checklist
Basic Members
Audio
|
Play
|
Popup
Lesson Notes
Basic Lesson Checklist
Free Content
Grammar: 1st person, plural, verb | Function: ability, obligations | Topic: I cant find my keys | Politeness Level: casual, Polite
This entry was posted
on
Wednesday, July 9th, 2008		at
6:30 pm		and is filed under
Beginner Season 1		.
You can follow any responses to this entry through the
RSS 2.0		feed.
You can leave a response, or trackback from your own site.
4 Responses to “Beginner Lesson #10 - We have to go.”
anitagomez says:
Thursday at 7:47 pm
Thanks for another great lesson. I wonder if there is a difference between “muftah” as shown in the vocab list and “miftah”.
I only know the latter version with kasrah for “keys”.
Mounia says:
Saturday at 4:40 am
That’s a good point Anitagomez. The difference is regional. The word for “key” in Standard Arabic is indeed “miftaaH” (مِفْتاح) with a kasra as you mentioned. However, in some countries in the Middle East, people pronounce it “muftaaH” when they speak.
Kelly says:
Friday at 1:17 am
I’ve noticed that in the female “you” form, sometimes the word is transcribed with an “a” sound at the end but is pronounced without it, or vice versa. For example, in today’s lesson, there was the word “tadhhabiina” but I didn’t hear the “a” sound at the end of it. How do I know when to pronounce the “a” sound and when not to?
Thanks!
Mounia says:
Monday at 8:55 pm
Hi Kelly,
That’s a really good question. Sorry for the late reply.
In the feminine “you” form (أنْتِ), verbs end with a fatHa, or the sound “a.” For example: “you go”, ‘anti tadhhabiina (أنْتِ تَذهَبينَ),
or “you do”, ‘anti turiidina (أنتِ تُريدينَ).
Usually, when the verbs are followed by another word, then we pronounce the grammatical ending “a.” Otherwise, it’s optional and some native speakers choose not to pronounce the “a” sound when the phrase ends with the verb. It sounds more natural.
For example: ‘anti tadhhabiina ‘ilaa al-madrasa (you go to school) but I can say
‘’ ‘ayna tadhhabiin?” (where do you go?)
Or,” ‘anti turiidiina qahwa” (you want coffee). But I can say, “madhaa turiidiin?” (What do you want?)
Note that in all cases, the Haraka “a” is present but we tend to pronounce it more when verbs are in the middle of a sentence.
Leave a Reply
Name (required)
Email (will not be published) (required)
Website
Email me follow-up comments to this post.
Please note: JavaScript is required to post comments.
Create a Free Lifetime Account
About our Printer-friendly lesson notes
Follow along to our award winning lessons with detailed PDF Lesson
Notes! These easy to print notes take a closer look at the grammar
point and vocabulary words presented in the audio lesson. Plus,
read more about
language101						cultural topics related to the lesson.
Re-activate or upgrade your account to access the PDF Lesson
Notes today!
Kanji Close-Up
Take a closer look at the kanji characters used in the lesson
Dialogue with the Kanji Close Up Practice Sheets! You'll learn the
meaning, readings, and stroke order of each character. Plus,
improve your writing with kanji stroke order practice sheets!
Re-activate or upgrade your account to access the Kanji Close Up
Practice Sheets today!
About our Review Audio Tracks
Listen and repeat with the Review Track. Hear the lesson
vocabulary and main phrases and repeat after the native speaker -
it's the best way to perfect your pronunciation!
Upgrade your account to access The Review Track and start
perfecting your pronunciation today!
About our Lesson Audio
Our team of
Arabic						language specialists have been releasing new audio and video
lessons weekly since 2005. That's a lot of
Arabic						language learning! All lessons are free for the first 2 weeks
before going into our Basic and Premium Archive.
Re-activate or upgrade your account to access every single
lesson we've ever created today!
About our Dialog Audio Tracks
The audio lesson is a comprehensive, easy to use lessons that
makes learning Arabic fun for anyone.
Each audio lesson contains can be downloaded in seconds
to your computer, iPod, phone, or mp3 player so that you can learn quickly and be speaking Arabic							in no time at all.
The audio lesson is your ticket to learning to speak
Arabic						with confidence and accuracy, and from your very first lesson!
About our Dialog Audio Tracks
Don't have enough time for an entire lesson today? Listen to the
Dialogue Only Track to hear the native Dialogue. Listening to a
little bit of
Arabic						everyday, no matter how much, will greatly improve your listening
comprehension. Guaranteed!
Upgrade your account to access the Dialogue Only Track and other
Premium Tools today!
About our Grammar Audio Tracks
Tackle grammar head on with the lesson Grammar List. We break
down the grammar piece by piece so you fully master the structure
and formation.
Upgrade your account to access the Grammar List and other
Premium lesson tools today!
About our Videocasts
Our team of
Arabic						language specialists have been releasing new audio and video
lessons weekly since 2005. That's a lot of
Arabic						language learning! All lessons are free for the first 2 weeks
before going into our Basic and Premium Archive.
Re-activate or upgrade your account to access every single
lesson we've ever created today!
About our Learning Center
Listen and read the line-by-line breakdown of the lesson
conversation with this Premium Tool. Listen to each line as many
times as you need until you fully understand the conversation and
pronunciation. Line-By-Line Audio Transcripts are the perfect way
to improve your comprehension - fast!
Upgrade your account to access Line-By-Line Audio Transcript and
other Premium lesson tools today!
About our Videocasts
Our team of
Arabic						language specialists have been releasing new audio and video
lessons weekly since 2005. That's a lot of
Arabic						language learning! All lessons are free for the first 2 weeks
before going into our Basic and Premium Archive.
Re-activate or upgrade your account to access every single
lesson we've ever created today!
Learn Arabic					 in the fastest, easiest and most fun way
Create Your Free Account
Select Your Level
Beginner
Intermediate
Advanced
Join Now
Safe & Secure. We respect your privacy.
Or sign up using Facebook
Already a Member? Sign In Here
ArabicPod101.com
Home
Audio Lessons
Video Lessons
Reference Materials
Blogs Forum
iPhone, iPad, Android Apps
Start Your Free Trial
About Us
Our Method
Our Story
Member Introduction
Testimonials Advertise With Us
Contact Us
Affiliate Program
Help Center
Welcome
First Steps
How to Download
Subscriptions & Pricing
Top FAQs
Tech Support
Video User Guides
Lessons & Methodology
Innovative Solutions
Learn Arabic
Learn Greek
Learn Korean
Learn Cantonese
Learn Hebrew
Learn Polish
Learn Chinese
Learn Hindi
Learn Portuguese
Learn Dutch
Learn Hungarian
Learn Russian
Learn English
Learn Indonesian
Learn Spanish
Learn French
Learn Italian
Learn Swedish
Learn German
Learn Japanese
Learn Thai
SurvivalPhrases.com
Copyright © 2005-2012
Innovative Language Learning. All rights reserved.
ArabicPod101.com
Privacy Policy |
Terms of Use
﻿Privacy Policy
Innovative Language Learning created this privacy policy to provide You with information on how we collect and use information, including personally identifiable information.
As part of the normal operation of our services we collect information about You. This Privacy Policy is intended to inform you how we use and protect information that we collect. You may always opt out of any use or disclosure by contacting us and notifying us of your choice.
1. Information We Collect
We collect personal information that can identify You such as Your name and email address and other information that does not identify You. When You provide personal information through our website, the information will be sent to servers located in the United States.
Your surname, email, postal address and telephone number are confidential and will not be posted in Your profile.
2. Use of Your Information
We use the information we collect to:
Deliver the services and products that You have requested;
Manage Your account and provide You with customer support;
Enforce our terms and conditions;
Manage our business;
Perform functions as otherwise described to You at the time of collection
3. Accessing, Reviewing and Changing Your Profile
You can edit and change any of Your personal profile information at anytime. Your username may be changed by emailing customer service and requesting that this action be taken. You verify that all information associated with Your profile is true and accurate.
Following registration, You can review and change the information You submitted during registration.
4. Removing Your Account
Upon Your notification, we will remove Your membership from our active databases as soon as reasonably possible in accordance with our policy and applicable law.
5. Disclosure of Your Information
As a matter of policy, we do not sell or rent any personally identifiable information about You to any third party.
6. Legal Requests
We cooperate with law enforcement agencies and other third parties to enforce laws, as well as investigate and prosecute unlawful activities such as frauds and scams.
7. Your Use of other Members Information
Through regular use of the website, as a member You might have access to another member’s contact or personally identifiable information.
By accepting this Privacy Policy, You agree that You may not disclose another member’s personally identifiable information to any third party in any situation unless: 1) The terms of this Privacy Policy permit disclosure; 2) You have obtained permission from the other member; 3) You have obtained the permission of Innovative Language Learning; or 4) Law enforcement agencies require disclosure to enforce a law, or otherwise require disclosure to investigate or prosecute unlawful activities such as frauds and scams.
8. Cookies
A cookie is a small text file that is stored on a user's computer for record keeping purposes. Cookies can take the form of session cookies or persistent cookies. A session cookie expires when You close Your browser and is used to make it easier for You to navigate our website. A persistent cookie remains on Your hard drive for specified period of time.
A cookie assists us in providing You with a better user experience by tracking Your online activity on our site, such as the web pages You visit, the links You click, and the searches You conduct on our site. We may use a cookie to assist with providing our services.
You may delete or decline cookies by changing Your browser settings. (Click “Help” in the toolbar of most browsers for instructions.) If You do so, some of the features and services of our website may not function properly.
9. Information Others Collect
In order to improve the site, we utilize web analytics software (“Software”) to collect information about use of the site.
This Software collects Users’ information such as visiting frequency, pages visited, and location. The Software also plants a permanent cookie on a user’s Web browser to identify that user as unique.
The Software identifies a user solely by IP address, and does not identify a user by name or other personally identifiable information. We do not combine the information collected with other personally identifiable information.
If You post information about Yourself or others, or communicate with others using our website, please note that we cannot control who reads Your postings or what they do with the information You provide. We encourage You to use caution in posting personal information.
10. Security
To safeguard the confidentiality of Your personally identifiable information, Innovative Language Learning utilizes sophisticated security techniques and procedures, including: daily security and vulnerability scans, software audits, firewalls, and data encryption (Secure Socket Layers). Innovative Language Learning makes every effort to protect that data against loss and unauthorized access. We employ many different security techniques to protect such data from unauthorized access by others.
11. Note about Children
Children under the age of 13 are required to get parental approval before using the site. Furthermore, children are not permitted to disclose personal information on the site. Should a child disclose information to the site, upon proper notification by and identification of the child’s parent, We will disclose to the parent any personal information collected.
12. Modifications to Privacy Policy
The Privacy Policy is subject to change by us at any time based on changes in the law or our need to accurately reflect our data collection and disclosure practices.
Changes are effective upon posting on the website.
﻿Innovative Language Learning USA, LLCTerms of Use Agreement
This agreement is entered into by and between Innovative Language Learning USA, LLC (hereafter “Licensor”), and You (hereafter “Licensee”).
Licensee’s use of Licensor's Internet site (the "Site") or any of the material or service offerings or other services offered on the Site including any off-line or third party components, data, lists, reports, dashboards, templates or services (collectively, the "Services") is subject to these Terms of Use (this "Agreement"). If Licensee does not agree to this Agreement, Licensee agrees not to use or access the Services or the Site. Licensee’s registration for, or use of, the Site or the Services shall be deemed to be Licensee’s acceptance of this Agreement. Licensor may modify this Agreement at any time without notice to Licensee by posting a revised Agreement on the Site. Licensee’s continued use of the Site constitutes Licensee’s binding acceptance of this Agreement, including any modifications that Licensor makes. Licensee is responsible for regularly reviewing this Agreement.
1. Service Communications
1.1 Licensee understands and agrees that the Services may include communications such as service announcements and administrative messages from Licensor. Licensee will not be able to opt out of receiving these service announcements and administrative messages while using the Site and Services until Licensee sends Licensor a specific written notice pursuant requesting the termination of Licensee’s subscription and that Licensee’s details be eliminated from the Site and any mailing list.
2. License Grant; Licensee’s Content
2.1 Licensor hereby grants Licensee a non-exclusive, non-transferable right to use the Site and Services for the term for which Licensee has paid the applicable subscription fees ("License Term"), solely for Licensee’s own personal use. Licensee may create one account through which Licensee can utilize the Site and Services. Licensee may not share Licensee’s account or account information with any other individual. Use of an account by more than one individual is strictly prohibited.
2.2 The Site includes a combination of content that Licensor creates, that Licensor's partners create, and that Licensor's users create. Licensee may use the content on the Site only for Licensee’s personal use in connection with the Services and/or Licensee’s licensed use of Licensor's products. Except for the foregoing, Licensee may not modify, publish, transmit, participate in the transfer or sale of, reproduce, create derivative works of, distribute, publicly perform, reverse engineer, publicly display, or in any way exploit any of the software, materials or content on the Site in whole or in part.
2.3 Licensee warrants that Licensee owns or has sufficient legal right to the intellectual property rights in any content posted or uploaded to the Site by Licensee (“Licensee’s Content”) and that Licensee’s Content, including any use thereof by Licensor as described herein, does not violate applicable law or the rights of any third party. Licensee hereby grants Licensor, Licensor's affiliates, and Licensor's partners a lifetime, worldwide, irrevocable, royalty-free, nonexclusive, sublicensable right to use, reproduce, create derivative works of, distribute, publicly perform, publicly display, transfer, transmit, distribute, and publish Licensee’s Content and subsequent versions of Licensee’s Content for the purposes of (i) displaying Licensee’s Content on the Site (ii) processing Licensee’s Content in connection with providing the Services, (iii) distributing Licensee’s Content, either electronically or via other media, and/or (iv) storing or hosting Licensee’s Content in a remote database or on the Site. This license will apply to the distribution and the storage of Licensee’s Content in any form, medium, or technology now known or later developed.
2.4 Licensee may be exposed to content that Licensee finds offensive, indecent, or objectionable or that is inaccurate, and Licensee bears all risks associated with using that content. Licensor has the right, but not the obligation, to remove any content that may, in Licensor's sole discretion, violate this Agreement or that is otherwise objectionable.
2.5 Licensor shall be entitled to adjust the scope of the Services and the underlying technical infrastructure to reflect the continuing development of the Services and technical advances.
3.0 Purpose of Site/Linking
3.1 The Site is for general informational purposes only. Before you act on information you've found on our website, you should independently confirm any facts that are important to your decision. Licensor is not responsible for, and cannot guarantee the performance of, any products or services provided by any advertisers or others to whose sites we link. A link to another website does not constitute an endorsement of that site (nor of any product, service or other material offered on that site) by Licensor or its licensors. We welcome links to the homepage of our website. Licensee is free to establish a hypertext link to the Site so long as the link does not state or imply any affiliation, connection, sponsorship, or approval of your site by Licensor. We do not permit framing or inline linking to our website or any portion of it.
4. Technical Support
4.1 Licensor will provide email contact information to Licensee for the purpose of providing technical support to Licensee. Licensor does not guarantee any level of technical support for technical issues not within the direct control of Licensor. Licensor does not guarantee that the Site or Services will be available at any time.
5. Intellectual Property Rights
5.1 Licensor and/or its licensors owns all rights, title and interests, including all intellectual property rights, in and to the Site and the Services, the software, materials and other related content (excluding Licensee’s Content), and any derivatives, suggestions, ideas, enhancement requests, feedback, recommendations or other information provided by Licensee or any other party relating to the Site or the Services. In addition, all content published on the Site, including, but not limited to, reports, presentations, written content, graphics, images, marks, logos, sound or video clips, and Flash or Java animation, are protected by Licensor's copyrights or trademarks or those of Licensor's partners or users.
6. Fees and Payment
6.1 Licensee shall choose a subscription level and term as offered by Licensor on the Site’s Subscription and Pricing page. Licensee shall pay such fees as specified and chosen. Receipt of payment in full per the plan chosen shall be a condition precedent to Licensor providing access to the Site and Services and any license grant herein.
Licensee shall be given access to only the specific portions of the Site and Services and for the chosen term relating to the respective level of services chosen.
6.2 Licensor will charge the subscription fees directly to the credit card or Paypal account Licensee provides after every billing cycle (unless Licensee cancels the subscription). Licensor will charge the subscription fees on a monthly basis one day after the day the subscription comes due. Licensee may cancel recurring subscriptions anytime. When subscription is cancelled Licensee will still be able to access the Site and Services until Licensee’s account expires. After cancellation, Licensor will discontinue billing for this particular subscription. It is Licensee’s sole responsibility to completely and fully cancel this payment cycle. Email requests for cancellation cannot be guaranteed or construed as proof of cancellation. Upon the date of expiration, all subscriptions will renew automatically for the identical term chosen by Licensee.
6.3 If Licensee requests a refund for recurring subscriptions, Licensee should first cancel any recurring billing cycle and then notify Licenseor within the first 30 days of the subscription. In the case of recurring subscriptions Licensor reserves the right to refuse refunds if the Licensee fails to cancel the billing cycle before the first 60 days and/or fails to submit a refund request within the first 60 days.
6.4 Licensee may be able to order certain other products or services through the Site. All products and services, their contents, availability, and pricing are subject to change at any time with or without notice. Please fully read the terms and disclaimers accompanying any products or services that you order through the Site.
7. Classes and Scheduling
7.1 Speaking Classes- Where the following courses are available, Licensees who subscribe to the premium course offering will enjoy one-on-one teacher practice sessions with a Licensor teacher. In all instances where classes are available, the following rules under this section will apply. Licensor makes no guarantee or warranty of the availability or offering of speaking classes.
7.2 Speaking Class Rescheduling- Licensor teachers try to accommodate schedule changes to the best of their ability. But changes to one student's time is highly likely to impact other Licensee’s schedule. Therefore, Licensees should notify their teachers 24 hours in advance if they are unable to attend their next class. Otherwise, the missing class will be considered an unexcused absence and Licensor is not obligated to provide a make-up class.
Depending on the student's speaking class package, please note the following rescheduling limits:
1, 3 or 6-month subscription: 1 class rescheduling per month
12 or 24 month subscription: 2 class reschedulings per month
Licensor is not obligated to provide make-up classes exceeding the above limits.
7.3 Speaking Class Extension- To provide flexibility to Licensees, Licensor allows an additional make-up period for speaking classes.
Classes during the make-up period must be claimed within the following timeframe:
1-month speaking class: 3 weeks
3-month speaking class: 4 weeks
6-month speaking class: 6 weeks
12-month speaking class: 8 weeks
24-month speaking class: 12 weeks
Licensor does not provide extension to speaking classes beyond the above time frame (excluding holidays, teachers' annual leave and Licensees' special circumstances). Licensor does not provide extension to any subscription products beyond the expiry date whether used alone or with speaking classes. Make-up classes must be claimed according to the schedule confirmed by the Customer Care Representative, student and teacher. Licensor is not obligated to reschedule classes outside of the agreed upon time or preserve the same teacher for make-up classes. Scheduled classes that fall on teacher's leave or a holiday will be made up during the make-up period. In the event a National Holiday or teacher's leave is longer than the make-up period, then Licensor will extend the make-up period to reflect the number of days missed.
7.4 Speaking Class Suspension- In extreme cases that result in the student requesting leave that extends beyond the make-up period, Licensees must apply for account suspension with Licensor's Customer Care Representative. Licensees are entitled to one account suspension per year exceeding no more than 1/3 of the total length of the speaking classes. Licensor reserves the right to decide the length of suspension if it exceeds the aforementioned timeframe. Licensor does not provide suspensions to any subscription products whether used alone or with speaking classes. Licensor reserves the right to suspend all future classes to be made-up at a later date. Licensor cannot guarantee that the student will continue with the same teacher upon resuming lessons. Licensor cannot guarantee that the student will continue the same class schedule. It is the student's responsibility to notify Licensor when he/she is ready to resume the course. Licensor reserves the right to determine the first day of class upon resuming the course. Suspensions are limited to 3, 6, 12, and 24-month study plans.
7.5 Office Hours - If Licensee subscribes to a premium plus account, Licensee will be eligble to participate in a one hour group help session via Skype. Licensee will be able to text chat with the available Licensor teacher during the session. Licensor will provide two group help sessions per week.
7.6 Electronic Mail Correspondence - If Licensee subscribes to a premium plus account, Licensor will provide email correspondence support to Licensee. The Licensor teacher will email Licensee and wait for Licensee’s response. Licensor teacher will respond to any email from Licensee within one business day. Interaction between the Licensee and Licensor teacher is heavily weighted towards the proactiveness of the Licensee.
7.7 Teacher Changes- In the event that a class is missed due to a change in teacher, Licensor will extend the make-up period to reflect the number of purchased classes. Classes during this make-up period will be rescheduled according to the schedule confirmed by the Customer Care Representative, student, and teacher. Licensor is not obligated to reschedule classes outside of this agreed upon time. In the event that a teacher misses a class, Licensor will extend the make-up period to reflect the number of missed classes. Classes during this make-up period will be rescheduled according to the schedule confirmed by the Customer Care Representative, student, and teacher. Licensor is not obligated to reschedule classes outside of this agreed upon time.
7.8 Transferring Classes- Speaking classes are limited to one student per account. Licensor cannot allocate any of your purchased classes to other users.
7.9 Contact Responsibilities- An email to schedule class will be sent to the student by the Customer Care Representative after we receive your payment. It's the student's sole responsibility to reply to our emails to schedule classes. Once or twice-weekly Speaking Class users who fail to reply to us within one month will be allowed one make-up class for each month missed. Users who fail to reply to us within one month will be allowed two make-up classes for each month missed. Licensees who have started their classes but stop attending without notifying teachers and Customer Care Representative will not be entitled to make-up classes.
7.10 Licensor Liabilities- In the event that Licensor is responsible for the cancellation of any speaking classes, a Customer Care Representative will reschedule the lesson and (where appropriate) replace the teacher as soon as possible, within one month. Licensor will compensate the user by extending his or her subscription, calculated on an individual basis.
8. Termination
8.1 Licensor may immediately terminate or suspend Licensee’s use of the Services provided hereunder, or terminate Licensee’s account and this Agreement if Licensee (i) fails to pay any applicable fees when due, or (ii) breaches or otherwise fails to comply with this Agreement.
8.2 Upon termination by Licensor of this Agreement or any part thereof in accordance with this Agreement as a result of Licensee’s breach, negligence or default, Licensor will have no obligation to refund to Licensee any fees paid by Licensee. The provisions of this section will not apply to those situations defined by law.
9. Licensee’s Conduct on the Site and other Restrictions
9.1 If Licensor requests registration information from Licensee, Licensee will provide Licensor with true, accurate, current, and complete information. Licensee will promptly update Licensee’s registration to keep it accurate, current, and complete. If Licensor issues Licensee a password, Licensee may not reveal it to anyone else. Licensee may not use anyone else's password. Licensee is responsible for maintaining the confidentiality of Licensee’s account and password. Licensee agrees to immediately notify Licensor of any unauthorized use of Licensee’s password or account or any other breach of security. Licensee also agrees to exit from Licensee’s accounts at the end of each session. Licensor will not be responsible for any loss or damage that may result if Licensee fails to comply with these requirements.
9.2 Licensee will be responsible for all activity occurring under Licensee’s account and will comply with all applicable local, state, and foreign laws, treaties and regulations in connection with Licensee’s use of the Services, including without limitation, laws and regulations governing data privacy, international communications and transmission of technical or personal data.
9.3 The technology and the software underlying the Site and the Services are the property of Licensor and/or Licensor's affiliates, suppliers and partners. Licensee agrees not to copy, modify, rent, lease, loan, sell, assign, distribute, reverse engineer, grant a security interest in, or otherwise transfer any right to the technology or software underlying the Site or the Services. Licensee agrees not to modify the software underlying the Site in any manner or form or to use modified versions of such software, including (without limitation) for the purpose of obtaining unauthorized access to the Site. Without limiting the foregoing, Licensee agrees that Licensee will not use the Site to take any of the following actions:
Defame, abuse, harass, stalk, threaten, or otherwise violate the legal right of others;
Publish, post, upload, e-mail, distribute, or disseminate (collectively, "Transmit") any inappropriate, profane, defamatory, misleading, infringing, obscene, indecent, or unlawful content;
Transmit files that contain viruses, corrupted files, or any other similar software or programs that may damage or adversely affect the operation of another person's computer, Licensor's sites, any software or hardware, or telecommunications equipment;
Advertise or offer to sell any goods or services for any commercial purpose unless Licensee has Licensor's written consent to do so;
Transmit surveys, contests, pyramid schemes, spam, unsolicited advertising or promotional materials, chain letters or other unsolicited messages;
Download any file that Licensee knows or reasonably should know cannot be legally obtained in such manner;
Falsify or delete any author attributions, legal or other proper notices or proprietary designations or labels of the origin or the source of software or other material;
Restrict or inhibit any other user from using and enjoying any area within the Site;
Interfere with or disrupt Licensor's sites, servers, or networks;
Probe, scan or test the vulnerability of the Site or circumvent any security mechanism used by the Site;
Impersonate any person or entity, including, but not limited to, any Licensor representative, or falsely state or otherwise misrepresent Licensee’s affiliation with a person or entity;
Forge headers or manipulate identifiers or other data in order to disguise the origin of any content transmitted through the Site or to manipulate Licensee’s presence on the Site;
Take any action that imposes an unreasonably or disproportionately large load on Licensor's infrastructure;
Engage in any illegal activities; or
Collect, store or transmit personal information about individuals or any information that is subject to applicable privacy laws or regulations, including but not limited to, any Protected Health Information as defined by the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 and its implementing regulations.
9.4 If Licensee chooses a username or avatar that, in Licensor's sole discretion, is obscene, indecent, abusive or that might otherwise subject Licensor to public disparagement or scorn, Licensor reserves the right, without prior notice to Licensee, to automatically change Licensee’s username or avatar, delete Licensee’s posts from Licensor's sites, deny Licensee access to Licensor's sites, or any combination of these options.
9.5 Unauthorized access to the Site is a breach of this Agreement and a violation of the law. Licensee agrees not to access the Site by any means other than through the interface that is provided by Licensor for use in accessing the Site. Licensee agrees not to use any automated means, including, without limitation, agents, robots, scripts, or spiders, to access, monitor, or copy any part of the Site, except those automated means that Licensor has approved in advance in writing.
9.6 Licensee may not access the Services for purposes of monitoring its availability, performance or functionality, or for any other benchmarking or competitive purposes.
9.7 Use of the Site is subject to existing laws and legal process. Nothing contained in this Agreement will limit Licensor's right to comply with governmental, court, and law-enforcement requests or requirements relating to Licensee’s use of the Site, which may include disclosing Licensee’s Content to the applicable authorities.
10. Indemnification
10.1 Licensee will defend Licensor from any third party claim, and will pay all damages finally awarded against Licensor in such claim or amounts agreed to in settlement, arising out of:
1. Licensee’s use of the Site;
2. Any use or alleged use of Licensee’s accounts or Licensee’s passwords by any person, whether or not authorized by Licensee;
3. The content, the quality, or the performance of content that Licensee submits to the Site; or
4. Licensee’s violation of this Agreement.
11. Warranty; Disclaimers
11.1 THE SITE AND THE SERVICES, ITS SOFTWARE, CONTENT AND OTHER MATERIALS, ARE PROVIDED ON AN "AS IS, AS AVAILABLE" BASIS. LICENSOR AND ITS AFFILIATES, SUPPLIERS AND PARTNERS MAKE NO WARRANTY, REPRESENTATION, GUARANTY OR CONDITION OF ANY KIND, WHETHER EXPRESS, IMPLIED, STATUTORY OR OTHERWISE, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, WARRANTIES OF TITLE OR NONINFRINGEMENT, OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, WITH RESPECT TO THE SITE OR ANY OF THE CONTENT, SERVICES, PRODUCTS, SOFTWARE OR OTHER MATERIALS AVAILABLE THROUGH THE SITE.
12. LIMITATION OF LIABILITY
12.1 TO THE MAXIMUM EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, NEITHER LICENSOR NOR ITS AFFILIATES, SUPPLIERS OR PARTNERS WILL BE LIABLE FOR ANY INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, PUNITIVE OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES IN CONNECTION WITH OR ARISING OUT OF THE SERVICES OR THE SITE, ITS SOFTWARE, CONTENT OR OTHER MATERIALS, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, DAMAGES FOR LOSS OF PROFITS, GOODWILL, USE OR LOSS OF DATA OR OTHER INTANGIBLE LOSSES.
12.2 TO THE MAXIMUM EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, LICENSOR AND ITS AFFILIATES, SUPPLIERS AND PARTNERS WILL NOT BE LIABLE FOR ANY DAMAGES THAT EXCEED THE TOTAL AMOUNTS PAID BY LICENSEE TO LICENSOR FOR THE SERVICES.
12.3 SOME STATES/JURISDICTIONS DO NOT ALLOW EXCLUSION OF IMPLIED WARRANTIES OR LIMITATION OF LIABILITY FOR INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES, SO THE ABOVE LIMITATIONS OR EXCLUSIONS MAY NOT APPLY TO LICENSEE. IN SUCH STATES/JURISDICTIONS, LICENSOR'S LIABILITY AND THAT OF ITS AFFILIATES, SUPPLIERS AND PARTNERS WILL BE LIMITED TO THE GREATEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY LAW.
13. Arbitration
13.1 Any dispute arising out of or relating to this Agreement or the Site will be finally settled by arbitration, except that Licensor may bring an action in a court of competent jurisdiction with respect to any dispute affecting Licensor's intellectual property rights whether statutory or contractual. The arbitration will be conducted in accordance with the commercial arbitration rules (the "Rules") of the American Arbitration Association. Any such controversy or claim will be arbitrated on an individual basis and will not be consolidated in any arbitration with any claim or controversy of any other party. The arbitration will be conducted in a location of Licensor’s choosing and judgment on the arbitration award may be entered in any court having jurisdiction thereof. The arbitrator selected under the Rules must be a lawyer. The arbitrator has no authority to award damages in excess of those permitted in this Agreement for any reason. Any award in excess of such limitation will be deemed void as between the parties. Either Licensee or Licensor may seek any interim or preliminary equitable relief from a court of competent jurisdiction necessary to protect the rights or the property of Licensee or Licensor (or its affiliates, agents, suppliers, and subcontractors), pending the completion of arbitration.
14. Miscellaneous
14.1 The Site features trademarks, service marks, and logos that are the property of Licensor and/or its affiliates, suppliers, partners and licensors. The Site also may include trademarks, service marks or logos of other third parties. All of these trademarks, service marks and logos are the property of their respective owners, and Licensee agrees not to use them in any manner without the prior written permission of the applicable owner.
14.2 Licensor may be required by state or federal law to notify Licensee of certain events. Licensee hereby acknowledges and consents that such notices will be effective upon Licensor's posting them on the Site or delivering them to Licensee through e-mail. Licensee may update Licensee’s e-mail address by visiting the Services where Licensee has provided contact information. If Licensee does not provide Licensor with accurate information, Licensor cannot be held liable if Licensor fail to notify Licensee.
14.3 Licensor's failure to exercise or enforce any right or provision of this Agreement will not constitute a waiver of such right or provision. This Agreement and Licensee’s right to use the Services may not be assigned by Licensee without the prior written approval of Licensor.
14.4 This Agreement, including any applicable attachments, and all terms, conditions, and policies that are incorporated into these terms by reference, constitute the entire agreement between Licensee and Licensor and govern Licensee’s use of the Site and Services, superseding any prior agreements that Licensee may have with Licensor.
14.5 Licensee may not use, import or export materials on this Site in violation of United States, or any other applicable country's, import and export laws and regulations. Licensor assumes no responsibility or liability for Licensee’s failure to obtain any necessary export approvals. Without limiting the foregoing, Licensee agrees that the Site will not be used, and none of the underlying content, information, software, or technology may be transferred or otherwise exported or re-exported to persons subject to restrictions, destinations subject to embargo, or to prohibited proliferation-related end-users or end-uses, without obtaining any export license or other approval that may be required under United States
