Connection: close
Server: Nginx / Varnish
Accept-Ranges: bytes
Content-Length: 14299
Vary: Accept-Encoding
www.jazzweekly.com | Reviews
C.I.M.P.
Drimala
PAUL SMOKER
Duocity in Brass & Wood
Cadence Jazz Records
CJR 1155/56
DOMINIC
DUVAL/MARK WHITECAGE
Rules of Engagement, Vol. 1
Drimala Records
DR 03-347-03
Duo improvisations featuring a double bass and a horn are some of the
hardest performances to realize. The challenge is compounded if the non-bass-playing
partner only has a trumpet's three valves and his embouchure with which
to create. Thus Rochester, NY-based trumpeter Paul Smoker should be
complimented for sheer audacity. His double CD session of live, more than
60-minute duets with either Dominic Duval or Ed Schuller shows what can
happen when two accomplished musicians strip down to the essentials and
go at it with no preconceived notions.
Nevertheless,
what appears pacesetting and awe-inspiring when sitting a few feet from
a performer in a live setting, reveals its flaws and shortcomings when
exposed to the light of a laser. This is what happens throughout Duocity
in Brass & Wood. Compounding the weakness is the hour plus running
time of each CD. Lacking the visuals and personal interaction, aural hard
slogging can result with only three valves and four strings on show.
This
is brought into starker focus when you compare Smoker's session with Duval's
duet with reedist Mark Whitecage on Rules of Engagement. Not only does
Whitecage divide his responses among clarinet, soprano and alto saxophones,
each one of which is capable of creating more textures than a trumpet,
but the entire studio session doesn't wear out its welcome -- it's over
in less than 44 minutes. Also, while the 11 trumpet-bass duets are instant
compositions, Duval wrote all the duo tunes on the other CD.
Performing
for the first time as a duo and with not many previous encounters under
their respective belts, Smoker and Duval spend most of the time on the
seven tracks playing slow-moving themes to determine each other's skills.
In the case of the trumpeter especially, this seems to involve extended
techniques that at time stray close to the show-offy.
On
"Burn Dialogue/Blue Monk," the nearly 131/2-minute longest track
for instance, he begins a cappella with a capricious display of growls
and chromatic high-pitched note bending. Just before the solo threatens
to turn into a Maynard Ferguson style extravaganza, it finally become
a hell-bent-for-leather dialogue between Smoker's chromatic trills and
Duval's slower-paced, carefully emphasized arco work. As the bassist bows
away the trumpeter decorates the output with shrill high notes and a line
that sounds like "Cherokee" played at a languid pace. There's
no mistaking "Blue Monk," which soon appears in proper cadence
here, replete with plunger trills. As Smoker dispenses his variations
on the theme, Duval counters with pealing, pizzicato strokes that offer
a sandpaper rough version of the same thing.
Other
than a singing version of "If I Were A Bell" presented in a
muted Milesean fashion, the tunes concentrate on brass and bass effects.
At one point Smoker warbles offbeat slurring phrases as Duval introduces
well-modulated triple stops; at another four-string strums from the bassman
calls forth echoes that could come from an Alpine horn - then choked valve
plunger work examination.
Fittingly,
the final tune is both abstract and conventional. Initially it resounds
with idiosyncratic brass note flurries that go from andante to adagio
to allegro, as the bass line becomes excessively discordant. The ending
however finds Smoker appropriately quoting "The Party's Over"
in mid-register, Bobby Hackett-like fashion.
Over-abundant
experimentation also characterizes the four Schuller/Smoker duets, with
the others leading up to and away from "Hypnotics/Bassoptics Mutetics/Nostematics,"
an almost 31-minute tour de force. Separated by periods of silence and
applause, the first section showcases legato trumpeting with thundering
bass lines that get harder, stronger and more repetitive as Smoker shrilly
whistles from his mouthpiece. As Schuller strongarms a vamping ostinato
back and forth, the trumpeter buzzes grit from his valves and soon broaches
mouthpiece kisses, small smacks then squeals. Following a pause, a dark,
double-stopping bass solo seems to invite Smoker's most idiosyncratic
response as higher-pitched, Harmon-muted obbligatos share space with deeper
open tones. It almost appears as if he's playing two trumpets at once.
As Schuller continues to snap out short melodies and decorative asides
that then turn to a walking bass line, Smoker completes the showcase with
a flourish, producing a steady "Flight of the Bumblebee" buzz
from his mute.
"Didgerotics,"
is the most interesting of the pieces -- not to mention the shortest --
since Smoker manages to produce basso didjeridoo and radung or metal Tibetan
bass horn sounds from his axe, not to mention vocalized plunger inflections
straight out of the Bubber Miley Jungle book. Meanwhile Schuller moves
from assured, low-pitched arco thrusts to split second visits to the effervescent
cello register.
Trumpet
and or bass aficionados may get the most from these duets, a limitation
you don't have to ascribe to Rules of Engagement, though you can only
get it at http://www.drimala.com.
Improv
associates of more than 20 years, nowadays Duval and Whitecage often perform
in trio formation with drummer Jay Rosen. That, of course, is when the
bassist isn't busy with many of his other projects including sideman gigs
with pianist Cecil Taylor and multi-reedist Joe McPhee. Not that Whitecage,
whose experience as a multi-reedist goes back to the 1960s, has to take
a back seat to anyone. He's suitably expressive on each of his three horns
on different tracks here.
Take
"Rainbows Were Over," which -- no surprise -- includes a recasting
of the "Somewhere Over The Rainbow" melody. Beginning with blurting
irregular tones from the alto that meet rasping, bowed arpeggios from
the bass, Whitecage soon digresses into husks of the original melody as
Duval provide a unvarying swing foundation. When the saxist arches out
shrill reconstructions -- speeding up and double-timing the theme -- Duval
answers with his own sonorous quotes, slowly sounding one note at a time.
"Snap
Judgement" is another alto feature for Whitecage's speech-like inflections,
Bird-like feints inside the horn and a bubbling, bluesy ending. True to
the title Duval constantly snaps his strings to such an extent that you
can savor his precise note placement as the tune moves from andante to
allegro, finally settling into ringing pedal point accompaniment. Duval's
bass work is brisk, however, as he strums with blurred fingering on "Katherine's
Song #4." A reverberating threnody, the piece revolves around melancholy
expressed by Whitecage's trilled soprano that extends barbed obbligatos
with intense vibratos. Examples of the reedman's cultivated, woody clarinet
playing are exhibited other places.
This
is how the scorecard reads. Duval and Whitecage have created an altogether
satisfying session. Smoker
