welfare jobs in United Kingdom | careerjet.co.uk
Job seeker free services : : :
Create job alerts
|
Post your CV
Sign up / Log in
what :
where :
Advanced search
Jobs by location
Advertisers
Partners
Job Seekers
Locations
United Kingdom
England
Northern Ireland
Scotland
Wales
Contract type
Any
Part-time
Full-time
Permanent
Contract
Temporary
Training
Voluntary
Suggestions
welfare to work
Recent searches
welfare, United Kingdom
political, United Kingdom
simulation, United Kingdom
excel, United Kingdom
instructor, United Kingdom
13598
welfare jobs in United Kingdom
Job search
> United Kingdom jobs
> welfare jobs
Email
Key Family Mentor - Welfare to Work
SPECIALIST RECRUITMENT PARTNERS LTD
-
Plymouth
Key Family Mentor - Welfare to Work. A leading employability provider who have been helping people gain new skills and get off benefits... for over 3 decades are currently recruiting. Working within the Welfare to Work sector my client have excelled and expanded and are now a market...
Contract Manager - Welfare to Work
Hampshire
This is an excellent opportunity for someone who has previous experience managing welfare to work contracts, with responsibility for staff...
Welfare Money Advice Officer
Ipswich, Suffolk
Excellent opportunity within local Housing Trust for an experienced Money Advice Officer who can provide Welfare rights and Financial... salary of between £18-22,000 per annum + company benefits. Whilst they are looking for relevant Welfare and financial advice experience...
Welfare/Teaching Assistant
West London
A primary school in West London are looking to recruit a Welfare Assistant for a varied role. The role is to work within a satellite school... on a full time basis, your varied role will include welfare, first aid, administrative and teaching assistant duties. The role is on a full time...
Welfare Money Advice Officer
Ipswich, Suffolk
Excellent opportunity within local Housing Trust for an experienced Money Advice Officer who can provide Welfare rights and Financial... salary of between £18-22,000 per annum + company benefits. Whilst they are looking for relevant Welfare and financial advice experience...
WELFARE 2 WORK Recruitment Consultant
Manpower UK Limited
-
Leeds
. Excellent knowledge of the recruitment process Excellent knowledge of local labour market needs Excellent knowledge of the Welfare to Work Agenda... skills Excellent proven problem solving skills Significant experience of customer service within Welfare to Work/Recruitment. Experience...
Welfare Officer
Gosport, Hampshire
• Maintain Families files and records • Maintaining the Project documents and filing system • To travel as required in support of the Family welfare...
Sales Manager - Welfare to Work
Permanent Futures
-
London
If you would like a confidential chat about this role please call Tina Lacey R3 Resourcing Welfare and Skills...
Business Development Executive - Welfare to Work
Genie Personnel
-
London
successful operations in welfare to work, adult skills development and business support markets, this role will make a significant contribution to the growth... packages such as Powerpoint, Excel and Word. Experience of working in the welfare to work sector, adult skills development, careers advice...
Welfare Rights Advisers Required
BRADFORD& AIREDALE CANCER SUPPORT
-
Bradford
Compassionate, enthusiastic and dynamic Welfare Rights Advisers required Applicants must have strong IT skills and at least 2 years Welfare...
Welfare Rights Advisor - Camden
Camden Town, North West London
Swim Social Work Team are looking to recruit a Welfare Rights Advisor to the London Borough of Camden The main purpose of this role... relating to casework. Minimum 12 months experience of welfare right casework and benefits practice within a statutory or voluntary sector setting...
Welfare rights advisor
Camden Town, North West London
, providing welfare rights information and advice to the public, Council staff and other statutory and non-statutory agencies in response to telephone... and written queries. Provide specialist welfare rights casework service to low-income Camden residents and maintain a comprehensive knowledge...
Account Managers - Welfare to Work
South East England - South West London
new division within an established company, they are experiencing rapid growth as companies and colleges who deliver welfare-to-work... experience within the welfare-to-work industry or a demonstrable record of success within recruitment consultancy. You will be aware...
Employer Engagement Consultant - Welfare to Work
Harlow, Essex
. The company is a provider of Welfare to Work services in the area and you will be responsible for developing relationships with local... as a Recruitment Consultant or in a Business Development role within Welfare to Work, to obtain vacancies from local employers (National to SME businesses...
Employer Engagement Consultant - Welfare to Work
Chelmsford, Essex
Chelmsford. The company is a provider of Welfare to Work services in the area and you will be responsible for developing relationships with local... as a Recruitment Consultant or in a Business Development role within Welfare to Work, to obtain vacancies from local employers (National to SME businesses...
Employment Consultants - Welfare to Work
Manchester - Lancashire
A Corporate Welfare to Work Delivery Provider seeks two Employment Consultants for an immediate start in their flagship Manchester office.... To apply for this role you must have experience in the delivery of coaching services and support to clients /candidates within Welfare to Work or the Recruitment...
Employer Engagement Consultant - Welfare to Work
Luton
. The company is a provider of Welfare to Work services in the area and you will be responsible for developing relationships with local... as a Recruitment Consultant or in a Business Development role within Welfare to Work, to obtain vacancies from local employers (National to SME businesses...
Business Development / Analyst / Bid Writer / Tender / Welfare to Work
South East England - London
scale procurement exercises. With footprints in the UK, Australia, Poland, France and Germany and existing successful operations in welfare... in either Welfare-to-Work, business support or skills markets in the UK and globally ·Research customer demographics, labour market...
Employer Engagement Consultant - Welfare to Work
Luton
an Employer Engagement Consultant to develop new and existing business with local employers in Luton. The company is a provider of Welfare to Work... within Welfare to Work, to obtain vacancies from local employers (National to SME businesses). The Work Programme
