Fan, The/ About Schmidt/ 15 Mins
Find dvd:
Home page | ' |1 |2 |3 |4 |5 |6 |7 |8 |9 |A |B |C |D |E |F |G |H |I |J |K |L |M |N |O |P |Q |R |S |T |U |V |W |X |Y |Z |
Fan, The/ About Schmidt/ 15 Mins
Fan, The/ About Schmidt/ 15 Mins : short review
Three films.
The Fan - Baseball fan, Gil Renard, is down on his luck.
Separated from his wife and son his love of baseball soon becomes an obsession.
He begins to stalk his favourite baseball celebrity, Bobby Rayburn and when Rayburns career falls into a slump he vows that nothing will stop him restoring his idol's reputation.
About Schmidt - Jack Nicholson makes a splendid return to the big screen as recent retiree Warren Schmidt who is trying to discover what he has given to society.
He feels that he wasted his life and doesn't wish for his daughter to do the same.
His idea of therapy is to write letters to a young boy in Tanzania whom he is sponsoring and also to set out on a journey of self-discovery exploring his roots across Nebraska in the 35-foot motor home in which he had planned to drive around the country with his late wife.
His destination is Denver where he hopes to heal the rift between himself and his daughter who is about to marry an underachieving waterbed salesman.
Unfortunately, he finds he absolutely hates the man and is determined to prevent his daughter from marrying him.
15 Mins - Eastern European immigrants Emil and Oleg arrive in New York and within minutes are on a crime spree, which wannabe-director Oleg keeps video-taping.
They plan to sell the footage to a reality TV show for $1 million.
Assigned to stop them getting their 15 minutes of fame are NYPD detective Eddie Flemming and fireman Jordy Warsaw.
Similar movies
Buju Banton - Island Life Live
Buju Banton rocks the house with a mind-bending performance featuring The Sagitarious Band and dance hall superstars Wayne Wonder, Super Beagle, Waggy T and Cool G.
Whisky Galore
During WW2 a ship carrying a cargo of whisky sinks off an island in the Hebrides and the locals can't resist taking advantage of their unexpected windfall, despite the unwelcome attentions of the Customs Officer.
Described as one of the greatest of the Ealing Comedies, it was followed by Rockets Galore!
Shadow Makers
Based on the true events surrounding the secret wartime project in New Mexico where the first atomic bombs were designed and built.
Dwight Schultz stars as Robert Oppenheimer, a brilliant scientist, who supervises the work on the now infamous 'Manhattan Project', with Paul Newman as General Leslie R. Groves, the military general overseeing the Project.
Determined to succeed, no matter what, the General is the catalyst for the dramatic tensions in the film.
The issues of progress of science at all costs, deep moral ambiguities and the effects of the project on the individuals involved are highlighted in the film.
Waiting For God - Complete Series 2
Feeling old?
You will be, after a visit to the Bayview Retirement Village.
The food's appalling, the staff treat you like incontinent children, and any show of independence is strictly frowned upon.
But two elderly eccentrics are prepared neither to give in nor grow old gracefully just yet.
As they find themselves thrown together by circumstances beyond their control, Tom and Diana strike up an uneasy alliance that leads to many adventures.
Contains Series 2, with the episodes: Counselling For The Dying, The Partition, Daisy Takes Charge, The Thief, Tell The Truth, The Hip Operation, Glamorous Grannies, Foreign Workers, Young People and The Boring Son.
Pirates Of The Caribbean 2 - Dead Man's Chest
Will Turner and Elizabeth Swan are to be married. However this is interrupted when both are arrested for aiding in the notorious Captain Jack Sparrow's escape. The new captain, Beckett, will lift all charges, if Will can hunt down Jack and bring him back to Beckett, along with his magic compass. However, Jack has other problems. Years ago, he made a deal with Davy Jones to raise the Black Pearl. Time is up. His part of the deal was to give Davy Jones his soul. Once Will finds Jack, unaware of the current situation, Jack coaxes Will into boarding Davy Jones's ship, the Flying Dutchman, and retrieve a mysterious key. This key opens the chest that contains Davy Jones's secret. With it, you can control Davy Jones and his fearsome beast, The Kraken. Once Will retrieves said key, Davy Jones is hot on his trail, now hunting down both Jack and Will. It is now, only a matter of time, before something happens. Hopefully the pirates can reach the chest and stop Davy Jones
