university sas jobs in Hong Kong | careerjet.hk
Job seeker free services : : :
Create job alerts
|
Post your CV
Sign up / Log in
what :
where :
Advanced search
Jobs by location
Advertisers
Partners
Job Seekers
Locations
Hong Kong
Contract type
Any
Part-time
Full-time
Permanent
Contract
Temporary
Training
Voluntary
Recent searches
university sas, Hong Kong
university teaching mathematics, Hong Kong
university international relations, Hong Kong
user experience architect, Hong Kong
unix analyst, Hong Kong
14
university sas jobs in Hong Kong
Job search
> Hong Kong jobs
> university sas jobs
Email
Senior Systems Analysts / Systems Analysts - SAS (x1)
Hong Kong
tasks and operation support for: The SAS applications Other platforms (e.g. Java) or open / proprietary regulatory systems Occasional needs... to perform system support after office hours Other ad-hoc tasks or projects Job Requirements: University graduate Minimum 6 years of system...
Java/SAS Developers
Hong Kong
Exciting opportunity to join a leading financial institution as a SAS Developer. Requirements: - Bachelor Degree from a top University... - Java development experience along with Unix scripting - SAS development experience in a mathematical environment - Strong SQL experience...
Research Assistant Professor
The Chinese University of Hong Kong
-
Hong Kong
disciplines; (ii) have a strong statistical and analytical background (with SAS or R programming experience); (iii) have good teammateship; (iv... will be highly competitive, commensurate with qualifications and experience. The University offers a comprehensive fringe benefit package, including...
Statistical Assistant
Hong Kong
; (b) High proficiency in MS Excel a MUST; (c) Proficiency in statistical analysis software (SPSS, R, SAS) is a definite advantage... to Public Opinion Programme, The University of Hong Kong, 5/F, Kennedy Town Centre, 23 Belcher's Street, Kennedy Town, Hong Kong (Attention: Ms...
CRM Analytics Manager (Asia)
Sha Tin District, Hong Kong
business by creating customer intelligence and optimizing customer relationships Requirements: University degree holder, or equivalent... and data mining models/tools (e.g.Oracle Business Intelligence Suite, SAS, SPSS or similar tools) is required Excellent English communication...
CRM Analytics Manager (Asia)
Sha Tin District, Hong Kong
business by creating customer intelligence and optimizing customer relationships Requirements: University degree holder, or equivalent... and data mining models/tools (e.g.Oracle Business Intelligence Suite, SAS, SPSS or similar tools) is required Excellent English communication...
Credit Risk Modeling Manager
Hong Kong
and develop credit stress testing programs Requirements University degree in Statistics, Mathematics, Physics, Actuarial Science, Risk Management... or related disciplines Minimum 5 years' experience in Basel II IRB credit risk modeling Strong skills in SAS programming language Experience in...
Credit Risk Modeling Manager
Wan Chai, Hong Kong
and develop credit stress testing programs Requirements: University degree in Statistics, Mathematics, Physics, Actuarial Science, Risk Management... or related disciplines Minimum 5 years' experience in Basel II IRB credit risk modeling Strong skills in SAS programming language Experience in...
Senior Systems Analysts / Systems Analysts - PB (x1)
Hong Kong
: University graduate Minimum 6 years of system development experience Excellent knowledge and development experience using Powerbuilder... 7 IBM Process Server 6 Java Swing  Knowledge in regulatory type and PKI applications IBM Portal Server 6 SAS EG / BI  SAP / ABAP...
Senior Systems Analysts / Systems Analysts - Java (x11)
Hong Kong
: University graduate Minimum 6 years of system development experience Sound technical knowledge of all the following: 3-tier applications using J2SE... Swing knowledge in regulatory type and PKI applications PowerBuilder IBM Portal Server 6 SAS EG / BI SAP / ABAP programming EMC Documentum...
IT Audit Manager - Wing Hang Bank
Hong Kong
report Requirements •University Degree in Computer Science, Computer Engineering, Information System or related disciplines, with CISA/CISSP... certification •Minimum 5 years' IT auditing experience preferably in banking industry •Sound skills in database and SAS programming skills •Good working...
System Analyst
Hong Kong
and development tasks for the applications. Other ad-hoc tasks or projects. Job Requirements: University graduate. Minimum 6 years of system development... with PowerBuilder, SAS EG / BI, IBM RAD 7.5, IBM WebSphere 7, IBM Process Server 6, SAP / ABA programming, Oracle RAC, Jasper Report, Documentum - J2EE...
Assistant Manager, Planning (3yr-Contract)
Octopus Hong Kong
-
Hong Kong
solution on data management using SAS and SQL (Mandatory) University degree with at least 6 years' relevant experience in CRM / Database Marketing...
Instructional Assistant / Teaching Associate (OM)
HKUST Business School
-
Clear Water Bay, Hong Kong - Kowloon, Hong Kong
subjects taken. Knowledge of statistical analysis, statistical software such as SAS and SPSS
