Cache-Control: max-age=0
Date: Thu, 01 Mar 2012 19:36:13 GMT
Connection: close
LETTER: Says city protest response deplorable - Commentary - bellinghamherald.com
eEdition
Mobile Edition
Subscribe Now
Pay Bill
Customer Service
Contact Us
Advertise
Search Newspaper Ads
Submit News
Sign Out
SIGN IN BECOME A MEMBER
Subscriber Services
Local News
Blogs
Contests
Calendar
Announcements
Web cam
Twitter
Photo galleries
News
Local
Community News
Northwest
Nation
World
On Patrol
Traffic Cams
Photos
Sports
Ski to Sea
High schools
Colleges
NFL
MLB
NHL
NBA
Motorsports
Outdoors
Photos
Business
Biz Blog
Whatcom County Stocks
Technology
Opinion
Commentary
Entertainment
Calendar
Movies
Dining
Horoscopes
Sudoku
Contests
Pets
Obituaries
Place an obituary
Read national obituaries
Shop
dealsaver
Search Newspaper Ads
Local Coupons
Classifieds
Legal Notices
Place an Ad
Real Estate
View Open Houses
Relocation Guide
Search apartments
Jobs
Autos
Web Search powered by
YAHOO!
SEARCH
BellinghamHerald.com
Archives
Web Search
for
0 comments
POSTED: Friday, Jan. 13, 2012
UPDATED: Thursday, Jan. 12, 2012
LETTER: Says city protest response deplorable
LETTERS - COURTESY TO THE BELLINGHAM HERALD
LETTERS
E-Mail
Print
Reprint
Text Size:
tool name
close
tool goes here
Is this really Bellingham?
Did we just see our local "storm troopers" in full riot gear evicting peaceful protesters from the park?
The protesters who are brave enough to put themselves on the line in the struggle for a more equitable democracy, live in tents in the rain and cold, educate us to the facts of corporate thievery, be arrested?
The Occupy movement includes all voices for justice. They are our hope for our future. Rather than protecting the grass in the park, we should protect non-violent civil disobedience. The city's response was deplorable.Belle ShalomBellingham
Copyright 2012 . All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.
Similar stories:
LETTER: Calls for protesters to repair park
LETTER: Calls for protesters to repair park
Occupy Bellingham protesters have made their statements and we have heard their complaints about our world. They have discussed how to solve the world's economic and environmental problems. Now they can do the right thing and remain to clean up the mess they have made. The city can levy fines on those responsible for the destruction of public property and for encouraging others to do so. It is common practice for the city to demand restitution in such cases.
Those who supported Bellingham protesters can also donate to the city to offset the cost to the taxpayers to clean up the human and material waste dumped in our park. Those who do not have the means to donate money can donate their time and volunteer to clean other areas of Bellingham littered with trash. Free speech is a right of every American; dumping your garbage in public is not.
The protesters can now claim a merit badge for civil disobedience. Play time is over; the Occupy Protesters should also demonstrate some respect to the citizens
LETTER: Concerned about New York protesters
LETTER: Concerned about New York protesters
I am sure that I am not the only resident of Bellingham concerned by the recent displays of what I believe to be police brutality that occurred during the "Occupy Wall Street" protest in New York on Saturday, Sept. 24.
Demonstrators protesting bank bailouts and the mortgage crisis were subjected to what I see as unwarranted aggression from members of the New York Police Department.
Luckily, protesters were able to capture many incidences of this violence on video. But will these videos lead to an investigation into the conduct of New York's policeman? Currently, no investigation has been launched.
Protesters block downtown Bellingham streets in 'Occupy Wall Street' rally
Protesters block downtown Bellingham streets in 'Occupy Wall Street' rally
BELLINGHAM - Parts of Cornwall Avenue were blocked as hundreds of protesters gathered downtown Friday afternoon, Oct. 7, to rally against economic inequality and corporations with too much power.
The rally was the first major local showing inspired by the Occupy Wall Street protests that have been going since September in New York.
Protesters gathered on all four corners of Cornwall Avenue and East Magnolia Street at 4 p.m. and marched to the Bank of America on Holly Street, chanting "Banks got bailed out, we got sold out."
LETTER:Says police avoided protest violence
LETTER:Says police avoided protest violence
In Bellingham, the natural decency of the citizens and our well-trained police kept the recent "Wall Street" protest from erupting into violence.
A counter-protester in a big truck with a God Bless America sign stopped for the red light at the Federal Building corner just as a large group of protesters arrived. When the light turned green, he revved the engine and zipped down toward Railroad Avenue, leaving a streak of black smoke drifting through the crowd.
He circled the block to halt again at the red light as the crowds passed on the sidewalks. A policeman took a position between the truck and the crowd but one young woman sat down directly in front of the truck. As the light turned green, the trucker attempted to turn away from the woman and pass her but it was too close and other protesters began to fill up the pavement.
LETTER: Unhappy with 'Occupy' protests
LETTER: Unhappy with 'Occupy' protests
I believe the supporters of the Occupy Wall Street protests include the Democratic Party, Communist Party USA, American Nazi Party, SEIU, United Federation of Teachers, Transport Workers Union Local, Islamic groups, MoveOn.org, Michael Moore and all the left wing, government-knows-best crowd.
Some are calling for all-out revolution.
In soviet Russia, Stalin used this type of mob mentality in gaining power and referred to them as "useful idiots."
Our constitution and free-enterprise system affords citizens, including these protesters, more freedom and opportunity than available anywhere else in the world.
Recent Stories in this Section:
LETTER: Shares surprising geography question
LETTER: Decries lack of independent thought
LETTER: Excited by advances in education technology
LETTER: Disputes pollution of carbon dioxide
WHATCOM VIEW: Community Bill of Rights seeks to shift balance of power
Links no longer allowed in story comments - Click here for troubleshooting commenting or how to report violations
Comments with web links or photos are not accepted to avoid linking to inappropriate sites. If you wish to send readers to other material, use (dot) within your URL or suggest search terms to use. When you copy and paste content from TheBellinghamHerald.com and other sites, a link back to the content is generated by Tynt technology. You must delete this link before posting your comment or the comment will be rejected.
Comments that include profanity or commercial messages/"spam" will not post. Multiple posts of the same comment will be viewed as spam and must await moderation to post.
If you find a comment profane, libelous or threatening, we invite you to place your cursor over the comment and click the "flag" icon that will appear to alert the moderator to review the comment.
Comments deemed to be profane, libelous, contain threat of physical violence, plagiarized or in violation of copyright will be deleted.
Along with your Bellingham Herald registration, you're now able to comment on stories if you are registered with Discus, Facebook or Twitter. If you have not commented for some time with a Herald registration, you may need to log out and log back in when making a comment. If you are having trouble logging in to post a comment, clearing your cookies and/or resetting your Herald password should clear the issue.
Click here
for information about how to clear cookies.
If you wish to have an avatar appear with your comment or aggregate your comments, you must log out of The Bellingham Herald and log in to Disqus, Facebook or Twitter. The links to these services appear in the story ccomments. If you log in with your Herald account, your computer does not need to accept third-party cookies. If you log in to comment with Disqus, Twitter or Facebook
