Chesterton Day by Day: March
Chesterton Day by Day
MARCH 1st
ST. DAVID'S DAY
MY eyes are void with vision; I sing but I
cannot speak;
I hide in the vaporous caverns like a
creature wild and weak
But for ever my harps are tuned and for ever my
songs are sung,
And I answer my tyrants ever in an unknown
tongue.
When the blue men broke in the battle with the
Roman or the Dane,
The cracks of my ghastly uplands they gathered
like ghosts again.
Some say I am still a Druid, some say my spirit
shows
Catholic, Puritan, Pagan; but no man knows.
Mother of God's good witches, of all white mystery,
Whatever else I am seeking, I seek for thee.
For the old harp better fitted and swung on a
stronger thong,
We, that shall sing for ever; O hear our song!
'The Seven Swords.'
MARCH 2nd
IT may be a very limited aim in morality to shoot
a 'many-faced and fickle traitor,' but at least
it is a better aim than to be a many-faced and
fickle traitor, which is a simple summary of a good
many modern systems from Mr. d'Annunzio's
downwards.
'The Defendant.'
MARCH 3rd
A MAN may easily be forgiven for not doing this
or that incidental act of charity, especially
when the question is as genuinely difficult
and dubious as is the case of mendicity. But there
is something quite pestilently Pecksniffian about
shrinking from a hard task on the plea that it is not
hard enough. If a man will really try talking to the
ten beggars who come to his door he will soon find
out whether it is really so much easier than the
labour of writing a cheque for a hospital.
'What's Wrong with the World.'
MARCH 4th
BUT the man we see every day -- the worker in
Mr. Gradgrind's factory, the little clerk in
Mr. Gradgrind's office -- he is too mentally
worried to believe in freedom. He is kept quiet with
revolutionary literature. He is calmed and kept in
his place by a constant succession of wild philosophies.
He is a Marxian one day, a Nietzscheite
the next day, a Superman (probably) the next
day, and a slave every day. The only thing that
remains after all the philosophies is the factory.
The only man who gains by all the philosophies is
Gradgrind. It would be worth his while to keep his
commercial helotry supplied with sceptical literature.
And now I come to think of it, of course, Gradgrind
is famous for giving libraries. He shows his sense:
all modern books are on his side. As long as the
vision of heaven is always changing, the vision of
earth will be exactly the same. No ideal will
remain long enough to be realized, or even partly
realized. The modern young man will never change
his environment, for he will always change his
mind.
'Orthodoxy.'
MARCH 5th
PROGRESS should mean that we are always
walking towards the New Jerusalem. It does
mean that the New Jerusalem is always
walking away from us. We are not altering the
real to suit the ideal. We are altering the ideal:
it is easier.
'Orthodoxy.'
MARCH 6th
IN a very entertaining work, over which we have
roared in childhood, it is stated that a point
has no parts and no magnitude. Humility is
the luxurious art of reducing ourselves to a point, not
to a small thing or a large one, but to a thing with
no size at all, so that to it all the cosmic things are
what they really are -- of immeasurable stature.
'The Defendant.'
MARCH 7th
THUS because we are not in a civilization which
believes strongly in oracles or sacred places,
we see the full frenzy of those who killed
themselves to find the sepulchre of Christ. But
being in a civilization which does believe in this
dogma of fact for fact's sake, we do not see the full
frenzy of those who kill themselves to find the North Pole. I am not speaking of a tenable ultimate
utility, which is true both of the Crusades and the
polar explorations. I mean merely that we do see
the superficial and aesthetic singularity, the startling
quality, about the idea of men crossing a continent
with armies to conquer the place where a man died.
But we do not see the aesthetic singularity and the
startling quality of men dying in agonies to find a
place where no man can live -- a place only interesting
because it is supposed to be the meeting-place
of some lines that do not exist.
'Heretics.'
MARCH 8th
IN one of his least convincing phrases, Nietzsche
had said that just as the ape ultimately produced
the man, so should we ultimately produce
something higher than the man. The immediate
answer, of course, is sufficiently obvious: the ape
did not worry about the man, so why should we
worry about the superman? If the superman will
come by natural selection, may we not leave it to
natural selection? If the superman will come by
human selection, what sort of superman are we to
select? If he is simply to be more just, more brave,
or more merciful, then Zarathustra sinks into a
Sunday-school teacher; the only way we can work
for it is to be more just, more brave, and more
merciful -- sensible advice, but hardly startling.
If he is to be anything else than this, why should
we desire him, or what else are we to desire?
These questions have been many times asked of
the Nietzscheites, and none of the Nietzscheites have
even attempted to answer them.
'George Bernard Shaw.'
MARCH 9th
A MAN can be a Christian to the end of the
world, for the simple reason that a man
could have been an Atheist from the beginning
of it. The materialism of things is on the face
of things: it does not require any science to find it
out. A man who has lived and loved falls down
dead and the worms eat him. That is Materialism,
if you like. That is Atheism, if you like. If mankind
has believed in spite of that, it can believe in
spite of anything. But why our human lot is made
any more hopeless because we know the names of
the worms who eat him, or the names of all the
parts of him that they eat, is to a thoughtful mind
somewhat difficult to discover.
'All Things Considered.'
MARCH 10th
WE should probably come considerably nearer to
the true conception of things if we treated all
grown-up persons, of all titles and types, with
precisely that dark affection and dazed respect with
which we treat the infantile limitations. A child
has no difficulty in achieving the miracle of speech,
consequently we find his blunders almost as marvellous
as his accuracy. If we only adopted the same
attitude towards Premiers and Chancellors of the
Exchequer, if we genially encouraged their stammering
and delightful attempts at human speech,
we should be in a far more wise and tolerant
temper.
'The Defendant.'
MARCH 11th
WHEN the working women in the poor districts
come to the doors of the public-houses and
try to get their husbands home, simple-minded
'social workers' always imagine that
every husband is a tragic drunkard and every wife
a broken-hearted saint. It never occurs to them
that the poor woman is only doing under coarser
conventions exactly what every fashionable hostess
does when she tries to get the men from arguing over
the cigars to come and gossip over the teacups.
'What's Wrong with the World.'
MARCH 12th
WHAT have we done, and where have we
wandered, we that have produced sages who
could have spoken with Socrates and poets
who could walk with Dante, that we should talk
as if we had never done anything more intelligent
than found colonies and kick niggers? We are the
children of light, and it is we that sit in darkness,
If we are judged, it will not be for the merely
intellectual transgression of failing to appreciate other
nations, but for the supreme spiritual transgression
of failing to appreciate ourselves.
'The Defendant.'
MARCH 13th
AND for those who talk to us with interfering
eloquence about Jaeger and the pores of the
skin, and about Plasmon and the coats of the
stomach, at them shall only be hurled the words
that are hurled at fops and gluttons, 'Take no
thought what ye shall eat, or what ye shall drink,
or wherewithal ye shall be clothed. For after all
these things do the Gentiles seek. But seek ye first
the Kingdom of God, and His righteousness; and
all these things shall be added unto you.'
'Heretics.'
MARCH 14th
THE Christian admits that the universe is manifold
and even miscellaneous, just as a sane man
knows that he is complex. Nay, the really
sane man knows that he has a touch of the madman.
But the Materialist's world is quite simple and
solid, just as the madman is quite sure he is sane.
The Materialist is sure that history has been simply
and solely a chain of causation, just as the interesting
person before mentioned is quite sure that he
is simply and solely a chicken. Materialists and
madmen never have doubts.
'Orthodoxy.'
MARCH 15th
THE modern world (intent on anarchy in everything,
even in Government) refuses to perceive
the permanent element of tragic constancy
which inheres in all passion, and which is the
origin of marriage. Marriage rests upon the fact
that you cannot have your cake and eat it; that
you cannot lose your heart and have it.
Introduction to 'David Copperfield.'
MARCH 16th
MORALITY did not begin by one man saying
to another, 'I will not hit you if you do not
hit me '; there is no trace of such a transaction.
There is a trace of both men having said,
'We must not hit each other in the holy place.'
They gained their morality by guarding their
religion. They did not cultivate courage. They
fought for the shrine, and found they had become
courageous. They did not cultivate cleanliness.
They purified themselves for the altar, and found
that they were clean. The history of the Jews is
the only early document known to most Englishmen,
and the facts can be judged sufficiently from that.
The Ten Commandments which have been found
substantially common to mankind were merely
military commands a code of regimental orders,
issued to protect a certain ark across a certain desert.
Anarchy was evil because it endangered the sanctity.
And only when they made a holy day for God did
they find they had made a holiday for men.
'Orthodoxy.'
MARCH 17th
ST. PATRICK'S DAY
THE average autochthonous Irishman is close
to patriotism because he is close to the earth;
he is close to domesticity because he is close
to the earth; he is close to doctrinal theology and
elaborate ritual because he is close to the earth.
In short, he is close to the heavens because he is
close to the earth.
'George Bernard Shaw.'
MARCH 18th
WE men and women are all in the same boat,
upon a stormy sea. We owe to each other
a terrible and tragic loyalty. If we catch
sharks for food, let them be killed most mercifully
let anyone who likes love the sharks, and pet the
sharks, and tie ribbons round their necks and give
them sugar and teach them to dance. But if once a
man suggests that a shark is to be valued against a
sailor, or that the poor shark might be permitted
to bite off a nigger's leg occasionally, then I would
court-martial the man -- he is a traitor to the ship.
'All Things Considered.'
MARCH 19th
EVERY statute is a declaration of war, to be
backed by arms. Every tribunal is a revolutionary
tribunal. In a republic all punishment
is as sacred and solemn as lynching.
'What's Wrong with the World.'
MARCH 20th
I HAVE no sympathy with international aggression
when it is taken seriously, but I have a
certain dark and wild sympathy with it when
it is quite absurd. Raids are all wrong as practical
politics, but they are human and imaginable as
practical jokes. In fact, almost any act of ragging
or violence can be forgiven on this strict condition --
that it is of no use at all to anybody. If the aggression
gets anything out of it, then it is quite unpardonable.
It is damned by the least hint of utility or profit.
A man of spirit and breeding may brawl, but he does
not steal. A gentleman knocks off his friend's
hat, but he does not annex his friend's hat.
'All Things Considered.'
MARCH 21st
MODERN and cultured persons, I believe, object
to their children seeing kitchen company or
being taught by a woman like Peggotty.
But surely it is more important to be educated in a
sense of human dignity and equality than in anything
else in the world. And a child who has once
had to respect a kind and capable woman of the
lower classes will respect the lower classes for ever.
The true way to overcome the evil in class distinctions
is not to denounce them as revolutionists
denounce them, but to ignore them as children
ignore them.
'Charles Dickens.'
MARCH 22nd
THERE is no clearer sign of the absence of
originality among modern poets than their
disposition to find new topics. Really
original poets write poems about the spring. They
are always fresh, just as the spring is always fresh.
Men wholly without originality write poems about
torture, or new religions, or some perversion of
obscenity, hoping that the mere sting of the subject
may speak for them. But we do not sufficiently
realize that what is true of the classic ode is also
true of the classic joke. A true poet writes about
the spring being beautiful because (after a thousand
springs) the spring really is beautiful. In the same
way the true humorist writes about a man sitting
down on his hat because the act of sitting down on
one's own hat (however often and admirably
performed) really is extremely funny. We must not
dismiss a new poet because his poem is called 'To
a Skylark'; nor must we dismiss a humorist
because his new farce is called 'My Mother-in-Law.'
He may really have splendid and inspiring things
to say upon an eternal problem. The whole
question is whether he has.
Introduction to 'Sketches by Boz.'
MARCH 23rd
MAN is an exception, whatever else he is. If
he is not the image of God, then he is a
disease of the dust. If it is not true that
a divine being fell, then we can only say that one
of the animals went entirely off its head.
'All Things Considered.'
MARCH 24th
SOCIAL reformers have fired a hundred shots
against the public-house, but never one
against its really shameful character. The
sign of decay is not in the public-house, but in
the private bar; or rather the row of five or six
private bars, into each of which a respectable
dipsomaniac can go in solitude, and by indulging his
own half-witted sin violates his own half-witted
morality. Nearly all these places are equipped
with an atrocious apparatus of ground-glass
windows which can be so closed that they practically
conceal the face of the buyer from the seller.
Words cannot express the abysses of human
infamy and hateful shame expressed by that
elaborate piece of furniture. Whenever I go into
a public-house, which happens fairly often, I
always carefully open all these apertures and then
leave the place in every way refreshed.
'George Bernard Shaw.'
MARCH 25th
LADY DAY
FEARFULLY plain the flowers grew,
Like a child's book to read,
Or like a friend's face seen in a glass.
He looked, and there Our Lady was;
She stood and stroked the tall live grass
As a man strokes his steed.
Her face was like a spoken word
When brave men speak and choose,
The very colours of her coat
Were better than good news . . .
'The gates of heaven are tightly locked,
We do not guard our gain,
The heaviest hind may easily
Come silently and suddenly
Upon me in a lane.
'And any little maid that walks
In good thoughts apart,
May break the guard of the Three Kings,
And see the dear and dreadful things
I hid within my heart.'
'Ballad of Alfred.'
MARCH 26th
IT is one of the mean and morbid modern lies
that physical courage is connected with
cruelty. The Tolstoian and Kiplingite are
nowhere more at one than in maintaining this.
They have, I believe, some small sectarian quarrel
with each other: the one saying that courage
must be abandoned because it is connected with
cruelty, and the other maintaining that cruelty
is charming because it is a part of courage. But
it is all, thank God, a lie. An energy and boldness
of body may make a man stupid or reckless or dull
or drunk or hungry, but it does not make him
spiteful.
'What's Wrong with the World.'
MARCH 27th
FOR human beings, being children, have the
childish wilfulness and the childish secrecy.
And they never have from the beginning
of the world done what the wise men have seen
to be inevitable.
'The Napoleon of Notting Hill.'
MARCH 28th
CRUELTY to animals is cruelty and a vile
thing; but cruelty to a man is not cruelty;
it is treason. Tyranny over a man is not
tyranny: it is rebellion, for man is royal. Now,
the practical weakness of the vast mass of modern
pity for the poor and the oppressed is precisely
that it is merely pity; the pity is pitiful, but not
respectful. Men feel that the cruelty to the poor
is a kind of cruelty to animals. They never feel
that it is injustice to equals; nay, it is treachery
to comrades. This dark, scientific pity, this
brutal pity, has an elemental sincerity of its own,
but it is entirely useless for all ends of social reform.
Democracy swept Europe with the sabre when it
was founded upon the Rights of Man. It has done
literally nothing at all since it has been founded
only upon the wrongs of man. Or, more strictly
speaking, its recent failure has been due to its
not admitting the existence of any rights or wrongs,
or indeed of any humanity. Evolution (the
sinister enemy of revolution) does not especially
deny the existence of God: what it does deny
is the existence of man. And all the despair
about the poor, and the cold and repugnant pity
for them, has been largely due to the vague sense
that they have literally relapsed into the state
of the lower animals.
'Charles Dickens.'
MARCH 29th
THE modern humanitarian can love all opinions,
but he cannot love all men; he seems sometimes,
in the ecstasy of his humanitarianism,
even to hate them all. He can love all opinions,
including the opinion that men are unlovable.
Introduction to 'Hard Times.'
MARCH 30th
EVERY man is dangerous who only cares
for one thing.
'The Napoleon of Notting fIill.~
MARCH 31st
AS Mr. Blatchford says, 'The world does not
want piety, but soap -- and Socialism.' Piety
is one of the popular virtues, whereas soap
and Socialism
