Jewogle
- Marvin Mandel
Recipes
עברית
française
русский
Tweet
Arts & Humanities
Business
Entertainment
Government
Media
Music
Science
Sports
U.S. Senate
U.S. House of Representatives
U.S. Governors
U.S. Mayors
Other American politicians
Supreme Court
Obama Adminstration
Government » U.S. Governors
Marvin Mandel
Tweet
About Jewogle
Jewogle is not quite like any other Jewish site on the web. It looks like Google. (The look is, in fact, a parody). But, Jewogle is NOT a search engine of other Jewish sites. Jewogle brings you both a Kosher Search engine that allows you to find information across cyberspace from Jewogle certified kosher sites as well as giving an extensive listing of some of the most famous Jews in their respective fields.
Read More
Popular Jews
Abraham A. Ribicoff
Served as Conn.s Governor (1955-61). Later Senator.
Arthur Seligman
Governor of New Mexico, 1930.
Bob Rae
Former Premier of the Canadian Province of Ontario. Member of the New Democratic Party. Correction: Rae is one quarter Jewish and married to a Jewish woman. He is also a great friend of the Jewish community. But he is not Jewish by either religious law or self-identification.
Bruce Sundlun
Governor of Rhode Island, 1991-95. Democrat. He is a retired Air Force colonel. He was not that popular a governor and was defeated for re-election.
David Emanuel
Revolutionary war soldier and Governor of Georgia, 1801. Emanuel filled-out nine months of the term of the sitting Governor who resigned to take a Senate seat. Emanuel County, Georgia is named for him. This entry is problematic since little is known about his early life. However, sources we have consulted reference historians that state that there is strong evidence he was Jewish. However, the irony is that one of these sources is a ministers bible in which Emanuels conversion away from Judaism is noted. Therefore, Moses Alexander of Idaho holds the title of first "professed" Jew to be a governor of an American state.
Ed Rendell
Edward Salomon
Medal of Honor winner, American Civil War. Governor of Washington Territory, 1869. Later moved to California where he became a leading lawyer and head of the California division of the Grand Army of the Republic (the Union veterans organization).
Eliot Spitzer
Ernest Gruening
Territorial Governor of Alaska between 1939 and 1953. His performance in office was widely praised. This was the period when Alaska "really joined" the rest of the United States as a result of WWII. During Gruening term in office the "Alcan" highway was built and the Japanese were expelled from their toe-hold in the Aleutians.
Frank Licht
Governor of Rhode Island 1968-1972. Democrat
