Microfilmmaker Magazine - Film Critiques - Final Film Critique: Absentia
Final Film Critique:
Absentia
Director: Mike Flanagan
Expected
Rating: R for language/violence
Distribution: None Yet
Budget: $30000
Genre: Horror/Drama
Running
Time: 91 minutes
Release
Dates: 2011
Website: http://www.mikeflanaganfilm.com
Trailer: Click Here
Review Date: December 1, 2010
Reviewed
By: Joel G. Robertson
Final
Score:
10.0
How
do we critique films? Click
Here To See.
Absentia’s story
is simple enough. Callie (Katie Parker) is a recovering drug addict who visits
her pregnant sister Tricia (Courtney Bell). It’s been seven years since
Tricia’s husband Daniel (Morgan Peter Brown) disappeared and Tricia is battling
her conscience as she prepares to sign his “Death in Absentia” certificate.
Meanwhile, Callie begins to suspect that an ominous narrow tunnel located near
Tricia’s house is connected to Daniel’s disappearance. Strange things begin to
happen as the sisters deal with issues of grief, faith, and the struggle to
make sense out of senseless tragedy.
Callie visits
her sister
Tricia...
...Seven years after Tricia's
husband disappeared.
Content
Let me start by saying that most micro-budget movies usually
suffer from one or more of the following maladies:
Bad
acting
Bad
direction
Bad
lighting/camerawork
Bad
sound
Bad
editing
The one area, however, where every movie, no matter how low
the budget, has the potential to excel is in the writing. Unfortunately, far
too many filmmakers give their scripts short shrift. This is especially true in
a genre I hold near and dear to my heart, horror. You see, far too many
filmmakers think that horror is about shocking an audience, disturbing them,
“rattling their cages”. But what they ‘re missing is that horror is about
ideas, challenging perceptions, showing us a mirror image of our world that has
a jagged crack running right through the center of it.
And it’s through that crack that the nightmares come...
So, how would I describe Absentia?
I think the following adjectives sum it up quite nicely: confident, creepy,
intelligent, mature, and mesmerizing. And despite a couple lighting issues (see
the Visual Look section below), this movie is an example to all
micro-filmmakers of what is possible if you have the talent and drive to tell
an intelligent story using the resources available to you.
I don’t want to give away too much about the story, but I
believe everyone (especially horror fans) owes it to themselves to check it
out. It’s enough to say that the greatness of the script isn’t what’s
explicitly stated or shown, but rather what’s implied. It’s the suggestion of
character relationships and dynamics, allowing the audience to fill in the
gaps. I was reminded of the Swedish vampire film Let the Right One In, which has a similar character-driven tone to Absentia.
Minor Spoilers Ahoy
Take for instance Tricia’s pregnancy. When we first meet her
and learn that her husband went missing seven years ago, the question arises,
“Okay. So, who’s the baby daddy?” Well, through gradual reveals we come to
learn that Detective Ryan Mallory (Dave Levine) is the father. Of course, it’s
assumed pretty early on that he and Tricia are more than just professionally
connected, but Flanagan’s script never spells this out. There are very few
expository scenes where characters prattle on and on about what has happened,
explaining plot points or motivations through dialogue. No, everything is shown
through actions!
The first rule of great directing is great casting. Of
course, many micro-budget filmmakers don’t have access to the talent pool
director Flanagan has (he lives and works in LA). But that’s really just an
excuse. Great talent exists everywhere. You just have to be willing to put the
work into finding it.
Great acting is in the eyes. It’s about an actor
disappearing and becoming consumed by the character. Like editing, sound, and
other elements, acting should be seamless, never distracting, or drawing
attention to itself. It should draw us into the story, not remind us that we’re
watching a movie. If the character is “real,” living the experiences on screen,
then the actor has done his or her job. This describes the acting across the
board in Absentia.
But after a chance encounter
in a tunnel near Tricia's home...
...Something unexpected
rocks
the sisters' world
.
Lead Katie Parker is going to be a star someday. Mark my
words. She has that spark, a rare mix of charm, likeability, and sincerity.
She’s beautiful, but not in an inaccessible way. Her performance was real,
combining toughness and fragility. People are dying for authenticity, and she
has it. I sincerely hope she never loses that quality. Likewise, her co-star
Courtney Bell is a wonderfully talented actress who delivers a fresh,
believable performance as Tricia. She was actually pregnant during the
production, which must have made what was an emotionally demanding role all the
more difficult. The chemistry between the two leads gave credibility to their
relationship; I really believed these two were sisters who had a history
together.
Other honorable mentions are Morgan Peter Brown as Tricia’s
missing husband, Daniel. Despite his limited screen time, his presence is felt
throughout the movie. His character provides the emotional core of Absentia and makes the threat of “the
thing in the walls” seem very real. Dave Levine (Detective Mallory) and Justin Gordon (Detective Lonergan) play what could have been cop clichés, but instead,
created small, real moments that give their characters depth and substance.
And, of course, a real coup for the film (and one of the definite advantages to
being in the City of Angels) was getting notable character actor Doug Jones for
the role of Walter Lambert, a man who disappeared from the neighborhood years
earlier. Jones is probably best known for his roles as Abe Sapien in Hellboy 1 and 2 and as the terrifying
Fauno and Pale Man in Pan's Labyrinth.
He was also in one of the best hours of horror television ever produced, playing
one of the Gentlemen in the “Hush” episode of Buffy the Vampire Slayer. And while Jones is amazing in these
creature roles, his brief, but startling appearance in Absentia proves he needs more roles sans makeup.
I could go on and on about the actors in this movie. Even
actors who appeared in only one or two scenes were memorable and only added to
the richness of the story (I’m specifically thinking of James Flanagan as
Walter’s son Jamie, Scott Graham as Dr. Elliot, and Ian Gregory and Connie
Ventress as Daniel’s parents).
Visual Look
From a technical perspective, Absentia is nearly flawless.
Absentia is
directed with a confident, sure hand and credit has to go to the Director of
Photography (Rustin Cerveny) as well as director, Flanagan. The shot selection
was solid. Unique angles and differing perspectives created a feeling of unease
throughout the film; however, these choices never felt awkward or forced. Solid
camera direction is essential to telling an effective visual story. A
poorly-composed shot or violation of the 180-degree-rule can pull an audience
right out of the story, leaving them feeling disengaged and unsatisfied with
the experience. Absentia, thankfully,
never suffers from this avoidable misstep.
There were, however, a few technical issues (I did say nearly flawless after all). In a few
shots, characters were backlit in a doorway or in front of a large, living room
window, their faces cast in silhouette. This wasn’t horribly distracting; it
just felt like it was more the result of limited lighting (i.e. budgetary
restraints) rather than specific artistic choices. An example of where
violating this backlighting “rule” worked to Absentia’s advantage was when Callie is jogging through that
ominous tunnel. Several shots show her at the far end of the tunnel,
out-of-focus in the background, silhouetted against a blinding white blaze of
daylight. This created an ethereal, otherworldly feel and was perfect for
evoking a sense of the disjointed and alien nature of the tunnel itself.
After a
night of terror...
..Callie must convince
her sister
about the tunnel.
Speaking of the tunnel, it made for a perfect location and
is a great example of writing your script around what you have access to. As I
understand it, director Flanagan came up with the story of Absentia as a way to feature this creepy tunnel, which is located
near his home. Too often, and I’m guilty of this myself, micro-filmmakers don’t
consider what they have access to and can use for free. This is essential if
your film is going to get made.
The only other problem, from a technical perspective that I
noticed was some vignetting around the edges of the frame in a few shots. This
was especially evident in one scene that occurs late into the film. It involved
two characters in Tricia’s house being stalked by the creature (I don’t want to
go into too many specifics for risk of spoiling the film). The scene in
questions was so taut with suspense, well-acted, and perfectly cut together
that, to be perfectly honest, I didn’t even notice the vignetting until my
second viewing.
The special effects in Absentia are understated and never distract from the story. At the end of the day, this
is a monster movie. It reminded me of Guillermo Del Toro’s Mimic in regards to the central creature (although the thing is
never fully revealed). Of course, tonally, the movie has more in common with
Del Toro’s Cronos. Truth is, if
you’re a gorehound, you’re going to be left wanting. But I hope most who read
this, while maybe aficionados of splatter can appreciate a great story, well
told, despite the lack of the red stuff.
Use of Audio
The audio levels were clear and consistent throughout Absentia. Dialogue was never muddy and
all Foley and sound effects were so well integrated into the overall sound
design as to pass unnoticed (as it should be). The musical score by Ryan David
Leack was subtle
and effective at setting the tone; however, it was a little overused for my
tastes. There were several scenes where the music was meant to heighten the
tension, but the actors are so good, I think they could have carried the scene
without assistance.
For example, take the scene between Tricia and Detective
Mallory in the car. He’s trying to convince her of his commitment and the music
felt heavy handed, trying too hard to drive home the emotional importance of
the scene. That being said, I can definitely see how the music was used to
bridge the scene in the car with the suspenseful scene it was juxtaposed with,
so file this criticism under “personal preferences”.
And when the police
search for answers...
...Callie realizes she's
the
only one who can find them.
Use of Budget
The budget for Absentia was raised through crowd funding on Kickstarter.com, a fantastic site for no-
and low-budget filmmakers to raise the funds needed for their projects. The
original budget for Absentia, as
listed on Kickstarter, was $15,000, but after the 30 day funding drive, the
filmmakers had exceeded that amount, raising over $25,000! I highly recommend
going to their Kickstarter page (http://thefivedrive.blogspot.com), reading
their pitch to potential donors, and watching all the promo videos they put
together. The videos are hilarious (nothing is more appealing than truly
talented people who can make fun of themselves) and show what’s possible with a
little imagination and clever selling techniques.
As to how the money was used, I think all the movie’s donors
got their money’s worth. Using a Canon 5D Mark II, Flanagan and his DP,
Cerveny, were able to create a cinematic look using primarily available light.
And while the Canon is able to capture a nice depth of field for that extra
“movie look”, this technique wasn’t overused. Along with the Canon, money was
spent on a camera package that included a 35mm Lens adapter, Steadicam,
Glidecam, and a homemade DSLR rig.
Additionally, a third of the budget went to that most
important of areas—sound. The money was spent on both production and
post-production sound, and it goes without saying (although I’m about to) that
a film can only benefit from great sound. A movie with subpar images (see Paranormal Activity or The Blair Witch Project), but excellent
sound can win over an audience. However, if the reverse is true, and the movie
has great images but crappy sound, you’ll lose your audience every time.
Besides camera and sound, the budget also included location
permits and another important category craft services.
I know, I know. We seem
to drive this point home a lot here at MicroFilmmaker, but that’s because many
of us have either worked on a set where the only available grub included stale
bagels and questionable cream cheese, or made the near-tragic mistake of not
feeding those good folks who so generously gave of their free time to help us
on our projects.
Lasting Appeal
So, will Absentia stand the test of time? Will others want to view it again and again? While
those who really like their horror dripping with goo and spew will be
disappointed, I think anyone who appreciates subtle, creeping, quiet,
character-driven horror will be very satisfied. This movie isn’t just for
horror fans, mind you. No, anyone who appreciates great storytelling, acting,
and that good ‘ol indie-filmmaking spirit will most certainly enjoy it too.
Overall Comment
Absentia is a
creepy, subtle, old-school horror movie, and personally, I loved it. I still
can’t get over how good all the actors were. I was completely drawn into the
story; not just the first time I watched it, but the second time as well. It’s
a slow burn, for sure, but it was refreshing to see a filmmaker show the
maturity, confidence, and restraint that’s on display here. I realize much of
the “restraint” was due to budgetary limitations, but all the choices felt like artistic ones.
While I have yet to watch Flanagan’s earlier works (at least
at the time of this writing), Absentia makes me eager to check them out. All involved deserve high praise for their
contributions to such a fine example of micro-filmmaking excellence!
FULL DISCLOSURE:
Mike Flanagan has written for MicroFilmmaker Magazine in the past. As recently
as last issue as a matter of fact. You can read his “behind-the-scenes” article
on the production of Absentia here.
However, he only began writing for MFM after two of his films were given Best
of Show awards. I was chosen to critique Mike’s latest effort because I had no
previous relationship with him. He paid for a full, impartial critique and
that’s exactly what he received.
Content
10.0
Visual
Look
9.8
Use
of Audio
10.0
Use
of Budget
10.0
Lasting
Appeal
10.0
Overall Score
10.0
How
do we critique films? Click
Here To See.
Joel G. Robertson co-wrote and directed the feature The Whole Town Is Sleeping and has made numerous shorts, including Shadows of the Dead, a winner of Fangoria
