GE Aviation: New GE Engine Service Organization Announced by GEAE
GE Aviationskip to secondary navigation
Search GE
Home
Our Engines
Our Services
Our Systems
Our Company
Press Center
Press Center
CF6 Engine Family
CF34 Engine Family
CFM56 Engine Family
GE90 Engine Family
GEnx Engine Family
Business & General Aviation
Marine & Industrial Engines
Military Engines
Services
Systems
Engine Alliance
GE Honda Aero Engines
Other News & Information
Aviation Fact Sheet
Aviation History
Company Information
Executive Bios
Facilities
GE Investor Relations
Student Information
Worldwide
Press Release
June 10, 1995
New GE Engine Service Organization Announced by GEAE --LE BOURGET - GE Aircraft Engines has consolidated its Engine Services Department and its Commercial Spare Parts Operation into a single, $1.8 billion organization, GE Engine Services, headed by newly named general manager Tom Brisken.
"This new structure promises decided benefits for the customer, particularly in the areas of cost and time savings," said Brisken.
"Our maintenance shops will continue to provide comprehensive, top-quality overhaul and repair of engines and components.
But having Commercial Spares as an integral part of the organization ensures optimum coordination in those cases where replacement, rather than repair, serves the best interests of the customer."
GE Engine Services, the largest integrated engine maintenance provider in the world, is experiencing substantial growth, based on business volume.
Over a 40-year period, GE Engine Services has repaired more than 100,000 engines and currently provides complete maintenance support for CFM56, CF6, GE90, JT8, JT9, RB211, and Olympus aircraft engines, as well as GE's LM series of aeroderivative engines for marine and industrial applications.
In addition, GE Engine Services is a dynamic, innovative organization, as is evidenced by its investment, over the past five years, of approximately $150 million in new facilities, processes, and technological advances and the introduction of programs such as Maintenance Cost Per Hour (MCPH) and On-Wing Management.
Susan Pittman heads the Commercial Spares Operation of GE Engine Services, and Bob Malone will continue as director of sales for GE Engine Services.
Two new service general managers have been appointed at the service shops:
Scott Ernest at Strother Field, near Arkansas City, Kansas, and Mike Sims at the West Coast Operations, at Ontario, California.
Don Johnson remains as service general manager of Aviation Component Services in Cincinnati, Ohio, as does George Duncanson at GE Aircraft Engine Services Ltd., Cardiff, Wales.
A new service general manager will be named soon for GE Aviation Services Operation Pte Ltd., in Singapore.
Newly created Fleet Management Services, headed by service general manager John Abbott, administers the MCPH and On-Wing Management programs, as well as the GE Capital Aviation Services (GECAS) lease fleets.
MCPH is a customer-focused maintenance contract that is structured on a flat-rate cost per flying hour, tailored for the specific airline.
As a result, the airline is able to forecast its operating costs more accurately over the life of the contract, particularly if it takes advantage of the workscoping expertise of GE Engine Services.
On-Wing Management, introduced at London's Heathrow Airport
