Cache-control: private
Products in Doctors - Allergy, Products in Doctors - Allergy in Faridabad.
Business Directory, Online Business Sources, Business
yellow pages
Home | About
Us | Contact Us
India Page Online, Online
trade portal, India yellow page, B2B market place of india
About
Faridabad:
Faridabad pronunciation
is a major industrial city and population
center in Haryana state, northern India. It
is located in Faridabad District. the city
was founded in 1607 by Shaikh Farid, treasurer
of Jahangir, with the object of protecting
the highway which passed through the town.
Shaikh Farid built a fort, a tank and a mosque
which are in ruins. Later, it becomes the
headquarters of a pargana which was held in
jagir by the Ballabgarh ruler. Faridabad became
12th district of Haryana State on 15th August,
1979.
Faridabad
is about 25 Kilometres south of Delhi at
28deg 25' 16" North Latitude and 77deg
18' 28" East Longitude. It is bounded
by the National Capital Territory of Delhi
on its north, Gurgaon District on the west,
and of Uttar Pradesh State on its east and
south. Delhi-Mathura National Highway No.2
passes through the centre of the district.
It has an Indian Railway station on the
Delhi-Mathura double track broad-gauge line
of the Central Railway.
Faridabad is famous for Henna Production
on agriculture sector while tractors, motorcycles,
switch gears, refrigerators, shoes and tires
are other famous industrial products of
the city. Badkhal Lake tourist complex,
Suraj Kund Tourist Complex, Aravalli Golf
Club, Raja Nahar Singh Palace and Dabchick
are the famous tourist spots. For the ease
of civil administration, Faridabad District
is divided into five sub divisions, Faridabad,
Ballabgarh, Palwal, Hodal and Hathin. Each
subdivision is headed by a sub-divisional
officer. Recently Faridabad has been suffering
due to the departure of many manufacturing
companies. Faridabad has seen Gurgaon and
Noida speed ahead in development with lot
of multinational companies setting up there.
Geography:
Faridabad City itself is a plain bordered by the
River Yamuna to the east and Aravalli Hills towards
the west and south West. Being in close proximity
to the Yamuna the land east of the National Highway
is better in quality than the western side. Today
virtually all of the land has been filled up with
residential housing as the population of the city
swelled during the mid 90s.
Much like the rest of India the people of Faridabad
rely on ground water for their basic needs which
is the gift of good monsoon season. In Faridabad
most of the population is Sikhs and Hindus and
having lot of Gurudwaras & Temples. Among
main Gurudwaras includes Santo Ka Gurudwara, Singh Sabha, Pothi Mala and amongst temples Hanuman
Mandir, Shiv Mandir and Ghusain Ka Mandir.
Transportation:
It includes everything
starting from an auto-rickshaw to the rich cars
like Maybach. Auto-rickshaws run mainly on national
highway connecting Delhi border and Ballabgarh.
Likewise other means of transport are taxis, buses
etc. Personal cars and two-wheelers have gradually
been increasing since recent years making the city
cause of jams and traffic blocks. Trains stop at
three railway stations in Faridabad connecting Ballabgarh
to New Delhi. Metro rail services are likely to
reach the city by 2010 as proposed by Delhi
