college level term papers - Presidential Studies (U.S.) - 175-036
Term Papers ! Essays ! Research Papers ! Help For All College Students Is HERE!!!
term papers help writing college level term papers
WHAT'S THE TOPIC OF YOUR TERM PAPER ?
Welcome To
College-Level.Com - 50,000+ Research Paper Examples On-File!!!
ALL of the following papers are available for SAME DAY
DELIVERY! ALL topics are only $9.95/pg
plus FREE bibliography regardless of difficulty level! MAKE YOUR
SELECTION BELOW:
Papers On Presidential Studies (U.S.)
Page 37 of 44
[Previous]
[Next]
The Letters of Abigail Adams to John Adams
[ send me this paper ]
This 5 page paper provides an overview of the central themes of Abigail Adam's letters to John Adams as presented in Giles Gunn's Early American Writing.
This paper provides an assessment of some of the central topics of the letters, including the theme of freedom and the belief that men fighting for freedom for all may be selective in the application of that freedom.
Bibliography lists 2 sources.
Filename: MHAdams2.wps
The Life and Legacy of Gerald R. Ford
[ send me this paper ]
This 3 page paper provides a brief overview of this American presidency. Biographical information is provided. Ford's legacy is discussed.
Bibliography lists 2 sources.
Filename: SA702GRF.rtf
The Life and Times of Ronald Reagan
[ send me this paper ]
A 7 page paper which examines the life and times of Ronald Reagan. Bibliography lists 4 sources.
Filename: RAronrg.rtf
The Many Hats of FDR
[ send me this paper ]
A 6 page paper discussing the many hats worn by the 32nd president, Franklin Delano Roosevelt (1882-1945).
Many admire his tireless efforts to pull the nation out of the darkness of the Great Depression; others loathe his manipulation of existing systems and the press to accomplish his goals for the country.
The paper discusses the “hats” of Commander in Chief, diplomat, chief of state, politician, jurist, legislator and chief executive.
The MLA-format bibliography lists 8 sources.
Filename: KS-FDRhats.rtf
The New Deal Debate
[ send me this paper ]
This
4
page paper takes a look at 1930s America and how Roosevelt's New Deal changed life forever. The debate over rugged individualism and humanitarianism is explored.
Bibliography lists 3 sources.
Filename: SA318new.rtf
The Nixon Administration
[ send me this paper ]
5 pages in length.
Architecturally adept at utilizing the concept behind rhetorical theory, Nixon was quite accomplished as presenting both an image of a president, as well as the actions of a president.
Public relations and human resources were his primary considerations when he established the Office of Communications, which served to perpetuate his intense desire to maintain presidential rhetoric.
Bibliography lists 1 source.
Filename: JGAnixon.wps
The Obama Administration and North Korea
[ send me this paper ]
A 5 page consideration of the problem North Korea presents to the new Democratic president and his Democrat controlled Congress.
Bibliography lists 5 sources.
Filename: PPnorthKoreaObama.rtf
The Panama Affair and the Leadership of President George Bush
[ send me this paper ]
A 5 page contention that Bush’s leadership during the Panama affair was exemplary.
He was able to identify clear goals and objectives and to effectively apply military resources to accomplish those goals and objectives.
Bush’s success in accomplishing this feat, however, is attributable to key players in the administration as a whole. Bibliography lists 5 sources.
Filename: PPusPana.rtf
The Policies of Presidential Candidate Kerry
[ send me this paper ]
This
4
page paper provides an in-depth analysis of the candidacy of John Kerry. The paper examines the 2004 election situation and evaluates Kerry's behavior with the use of
ideas from Machiavelli and Burns
