Materials Engineering Alumni
Skip to content | Change text size
Monash home | Engineering home |
Future students |
Current students |
Alumni |
Staff intranet |
Contact Engineering
Research
| Departments and schools
| Staff directory |
A-Z index
|
Site map
Search
Materials Engineering Home
About Materials Engineering
Future students
Current students
Research
Alumni
Staff and Postgraduate students
Staff Intranet (restricted access)
Contact us
Monash University > Faculty of Engineering > Materials > Alumni
Materials Engineering Alumni
Sarah Quirk, Materials Engineer (2009)
Sarah Quirk (2009) is a materials reliability engineer at ExxonMobil’s Altona refinery, part of a team that looks after the integrity of every piece of equipment to ensure that no leaks take place.
Read more
Christine Crawshaw, Materials Engineer (2009)
Her advice for university leavers is to go for first-class honours, and for a job that interests you.
‘Be enthusiastic in the interview process, and get involved in groups or societies like MatES—it gives you more experience you can draw on in the interview.’
Read more
Andrew Bunter, Materials Engineer (2009)
‘Choose a job based on what you're interested in, not on what you think you should be.
‘The auto industry is hardly the most stable sector around, and yet I chose to be here because I had a keen interest.
‘Now I'm loving it. I get paid to muck around with cars. I doubt if I'd chosen a job based on money I'd be as happy I am now—maybe close, but I'm sceptical about how long that would last.’
Read more
Andrew Czerwinski, Materials Engineer (2009)
Graduates of Monash materials engineering, Andrew says, fill a niche role in the market that few others can.
Since leaving Monash, graduate materials engineer Andrew Czerwinski (2009) has been working on a long-term project involving the Victorian government, Monash and several industry partners.
Read more
Sky Loo, Materials Engineer (2009)
An international student, Sky believes his communication skills have been a major asset.
‘Being able to communicate effectively and clearly is one of the most important skills you need in the industry,’ he says.
Read more
Allen Zheng
..Materials Engineering at Monash gave me lots of hands-on experience across various areas and in different directions, for example polymers, metals, composites, superconductors and dye-sensitised solar cells."
For Allen Zheng (2007), Materials Engineering at Monash was the first step on a long ladder.
‘It gave me an opportunity to work in the mining industry, and showed me the way to be an engineer,’ he says.
Read more
Kenneth Cheah
‘The culture was the most enjoyable part of my time in the department. It was a close-knit community with very much an open-door policy. The lecturers were easily accessible and always willing to discuss their research interests and answer questions.’
The department itself was something of a revelation, Ken says.
‘It was surprisingly not as rigidly structured as some of the traditional engineering courses,’ he says.
‘Due to the small groups, it allowed for extensive discussion and debate of different ideas.
Read more
Alexandra Shekhter
‘It was exactly as I expected, and more. I did PhD by research in the department and enjoyed every minute of it.’
Studying materials engineering at Monash was a life-changing experience for Dr Alexandra Shekhter (2003), a research scientist at the Defence Science and Technology Organisation.
‘If I didn’t do a PhD in materials engineering, I doubt I would be in the job I am now,’ she says.
Read more
Katherine Dean
‘The idea that the science I am involved in may one day make a significant impact on the environmental footprint we make as a society is a key driver for me.’
Dr Katherine Dean (2002) fell in love with research during her honours year—now she is a research scientist with Green Materials, at CSIRO Manufacturing and Materials Technology.
One of the highlights of her time in the department was studying for four months in Lyon, France, as part of her PhD. Katherine did a double degree of Materials Science.
Read more
Edward Kosior
Change is the only thing that doesn’t change, says Monash graduate Edward Kosior.
And he should know. After graduating with a Master of Engineering Science in Polymer Engineering at Monash in 1985, Edward has worked as director of the RMIT Polymer Technology Centre, and as national manager of research and technology at Visy Plastics, where he designed and supervised the construction of the state-of-the-art recycling centre for post-consumer plastics at Reservoir, Victoria.
Today Edward is managing director of Nextek Pty Ltd, a company he set up to provide solutions to the environmental and recycling challenges facing the polymer industry.
Read more
Alireza Kouklan
‘I believe that these days multi-skilled people are essential for any professional job.’
Alireza Kouklan (2007) worked in the mining industry for about seven years before beginning a masters degree in materials engineering (corrosion) at Monash.
Today he manages a team of corrosion specialists at Tenix, Australia’s largest defence and technology contractor.
Read more
Juri Jeske
‘The course at Monash was as I expected, challenging, and diverse enough to allow an informed choice for later specialisation.’
Juri Jeske (2003) decided to study materials engineering after undertaking work experience with the ceramics industry in Modena, Italy.
‘During this experience it became clear that a more detailed understanding of materials was required for me to pursue my career in this field in some meaningful way,’ Juri says.
Read more
Kelly Lawrence
‘After graduation I definitely wanted to find a job that would use the knowledge I had obtained while doing my degree. In my last year or so I thought that I would prefer a job within the manufacturing industry.’
Read more
Mark Forrest
‘A few materials science units I took were taught by materials engineering staff, and the range and scope of materials covered made the multidisciplinary nature of materials engineering appealing.’
Research engineer Dr Mark Forrest (2001) takes body protection very seriously.
A research fellow at Deakin University, Mark is using composite materials to develop personal armour.
Read more
Dr Marcus Zipper
‘By acting as a bridge between the R&D at CSIRO and our key external stakeholders and customers, I can have an impact that will provide benefit to Australia and Australian industry.’
Read more
Jenny Law
Jenny decided to study materials engineering during first-year engineering at Monash.
‘The interesting materials subject influenced my choice and also my career prospects,’ she says.
‘Materials engineering seemed novel, interesting and fun compared with the other engineering courses offered at the time.’
Read more
David Monk
‘Monash was a friendly environment to work in—the staff always had their doors open if you had questions or concerns. Having a student room for the final year developed a great team environment.’
For materials engineering graduate David Monk (1998), it was a case of moving from one close-knit group at Monash to another in the refining industry.
David is Senior Reliability Engineer at Mobil Refining Australia, in Altona, Victoria.
Read more
Michelle Katz
‘Now I know that materials engineering is in everyday life, such as design of planes, cars, computers etc. These are the examples that I use when I explain materials engineering to people who have no idea what it is.’
Originally Michelle was interested in chemical engineering, but she soon had second thoughts.
‘My interest switched to materials engineering, mainly because I felt that it was most similar to science, and I believed that I was better at science than engineering,’ she says.
Read more
Campbell Thomas
‘The close day-to-day interaction with my fellow undergrads formed some life-long friendships. The academics were always willing to assist and generally showed an excellent level of professionalism in their lectures.’
Campbell Thomas (1998) was intent on becoming a chemical engineer, and then he discovered materials engineering.
Read more
Rajkumar Gopiraj
‘I attended various career fairs and was informed that a double degree in materials engineering and science would be the perfect career path that encompassed my areas of interest. The degree was offered only at Monash University.
Read more
Peter Mckenzie
‘The graduate process engineering role at Alcoa has provided me with the opportunity to use the analytical skills developed at Monash,’ Peter says.
‘I always wanted to work in industry, even before I started the Monash course,’ says Peter, who completed his PhD in 2007.
Apart from studying a range of materials-related subjects, highlights of Peter’s time at Monash
