Updated Figures Show Much Greater U.S. Wind Power Potential
Follow Matter Network
Facebook
Twitter
Newsletter
LinkedIn
News and ideas for a sustainable world
Search
Building
Computing
CSR
Energy
Gadgets
Investing
Jobs
Smart Grid
TransportationTravel
ADVERTISEMENT
Books that Matter
Bloom Energy: Should You Believe the Hype?
Golf Club Recycles Water to Irrigate Greens »
Energy
|
February 22, 2010
|
by SustainableBusiness.com
Updated Figures Show Much Greater U.S. Wind Power Potential
New figures from the National Renewable Energy Laboratory show that US wind resources are significantly greater than previously estimated.
Onshore US wind resources could generate nearly 37,000,000 gigawatt-hours (GWh) annually, more than nine times current total US electricity consumption, according to analysis by the American Wind Energy Association (AWEA).
The previous national government survey of US wind resources, carried out by the Pacific Northwest Laboratory, estimated US wind potential at 10,777,000 GWh.
Put another way, the potential capacity of America’s onshore wind resource is over 10,000 gigawatts (GW). The US is barely tapping this vast resource: current wind installed capacity is 35 GW in the US and 158 GW world-wide.
These larger estimates are due to improved wind turbine technology, as today’s taller turbines tap better winds at higher elevations (this study measured winds at 80 meters), and to more refined wind measurements.
The new figures ranked the following states as the ten windiest, Texas, Kansas, Montana, Nebraska, South Dakota, North Dakota, Iowa, Wyoming, Oklahoma, New Mexico.
Indiana, Ohio and Oregon moved up into the list of the top 20 windiest states.
In a single year, the US wind resource potential could produce 364.9 quadrillion btus, the energy equivalent of all proven oil and natural gas reserves in the US as estimated by the Energy Information Administration (EIA). And, of course, as a renewable resource, wind will not be depleted and will continue to provide energy year after year.
"This new analysis confirms that America is blessed with vast wind resources that can energize our economy, create jobs, and avoid carbon for years to come--if we give ourselves the policy tools to do so, including a strong national Renewable Electricity Standard with aggressive, binding near- and long-term targets." AWEA CEO Denise Bode said in a release. "The wind resource is there, vast and inexhaustible, waiting for us. Meanwhile, the economy can’t wait, job creation can’t wait, and America can’t wait. We need Congress to act now and pass a comprehensive climate and energy bill that includes a strong national Renewable Electricity Standard
