Great Lakes Scuttlebutt - Michigan Boating Industries Association President Van Snider Retires
Home
The Magazine
Online Magazine
News & Articles
Latest Newsletter
Photo Gallery
Classifieds
Boatsville Network
Yachtworld
Magazine Distribution
Boating Services
Boat Shows & Events
Boating Tools
Boat History
Boat Loans
Boat Tests
Boat Values
Charts
Work in Boating
BoatUS Boating Simulator Game
Weather Conditions
Lake Levels
Marine Forcast
Social Networking
Find us on Facebook
Follow us on Twitter
Watch us on YouTube
Contact Us
Email Us
Advertising Info
Classified Advertising
Buy A Print Subscription
Submit Your Photos
Frequently Asked Questions
Testimonials
Michigan Boating Industries Association President Van Snider Retires
Published Friday, December 10, 2010 7:00 amby Michigan Boating Industries AssociationLivonia, Mich.,- Van W. Snider, Jr., CAE, retired November 30, 2010 from his Chief Staff Executive position with the Michigan Boating Industries Association (MBIA) with more than 20 years as the Association's President.
Snider joined MBIA in August, 1990 after serving approximately eight years as the Executive Director of the Marine Industries Association of South Florida (MIASF).
Prior to his 28 years of management of two major marine trade associations, Snider managed a boat dealership and marina in Ohio prior to moving to Florida.
Before assuming management of MIASF, he sold yachts as a yacht broker, managing a boat dealership as well as a marina.
After receiving his BBA degree from Ohio University in 1968, Snider was commissioned in the US Army and served as an Armor Officer on Okinawa, Japan.
While in Florida, Snider received his M.B.A. degree from Novi Southeastern University, Ft. Lauderdale-Davie, Florida and was certified as a Certified Association Executive (CAE) from the American Society of Association Executives which he has maintained.
During his tenure at MBIA, the association expanded member benefits and increased the number of boat shows produced by the statewide association from one show to three which include the Detroit Boat Show, Spring Boating Expo in Novi, Mich., and the Boating & Outdoor Festival in Harrison Township, Mich.
Snider has been recognized for his leadership and accomplishments from several organizations.
He is an Honorary Alumni of Michigan State University; received the Michigan Society of Association's (MSAE) Strategic Leader Award and recently was inducted into the MSAE Hall of Fame, and was also inducted into the MBIA Hall of Fame on December 2, at theRecreational Boating Educational Conference in Midland, Mich. In addition, Michigan Sea Grant created an award given to him to recognize his collaborative efforts with Sea Grant which now is called the "Van Snider Award."
Snider plans to stay in Michigan
