Astrology | Everest Journal
Thursday 01 March 2012
User Email ID*
Password
Forget Password? | Register
Successfully login
Submit your email address.
Login
Agents
Advertise
Contact Us
Advertisement
Home
Travel Holidays
Featured Trips
Cultural JourneyEco TourismMountain BikingMountain Flights and ChartersMountaineering and ClimbingNature And WildlifeSpiritual VacationsTrekking and Hiking
Online Hotel Booking
Hotels In Kathmandu
Hotels In Lalitpur
Hotels In Nagarkot
Hotels In Lumbini
Hotels In Dhulikhel
Hotels In Pokhara
Hotels In Chitwan
Popular
Videos
Cities
Divinities
Myths and Folklores
Horoscope
Nature
Biodiversity
Climate
Geography
National Parks
Activities
Adventure
Rafting
Trekking
Sightseeing
Shopping
Entertainment and Sports
Spiritual Health and Healing
Useful Information
Religion and Pilgrimage Sites
Festivals
Visa and Money
Banking
Accommodation
Transportation
Airlines
Nepal On World Map
People, Culture and Others
Communication
Upcoming Events and Festivals
Featured
Mountain Memories
Home  »  People, Culture and Others  »  Astrology
Astrology
Tuesday, November 20, 2007, 13:31
People, Culture and Others
910 views View Comments
Like the other significant parts of the Nepalese heritage Astrology too links its origin to the Vedas, the major source of virtually everything (for the Hindus) written thousands of years ago. Mesh (Aries), Brish (Taurus), Mithun (Gemini), Karkat (Cancer), Simha (Leo), Kanya (Virgo), Tula (Libra), Brishchik (Scorpio), Dhanu (Sagittarius), Makar (Capricorn), Kumbha (Aquarius) and Meen (Pisces) are the 12 signs of the zodiac, and in Nepali they are called Rashi.
In Nepal the moment a baby is born, the first thing they do is note down the exact time of birth. Then it is given to the astrologer, who according to the position of the different planets in the solar system at that precise moment prepares a Cheena (horoscope). Cheena is a rectangular chart, which indicates the degree of influence of the planets from the solar world on the people born to a particular Rashi. Besides highlighting the positive as well as negative aspects of one’s life comprising of achievements and failures, when it comes to facing difficult times the Nepalese people go to their astrologer with their Cheena for consultations and they act according to his recommendations.
As an astrological document, Cheena, they say, pre-determines the entire course of an individual s life. For the Nepalese people on their birthday, the day is partly set aside to worship their planet that occupies a major position in their horoscope made according to the position of stars at the time of birth. It is also a day for them to please the other ones who are not placed in such a favourable position in their Cheena. As well on this day they also go through a number of rituals with their priest, who is offered grains and cash in order to stay in good health for the entire year. Astrologers are also consulted on various occasions like rice feeding, sacred thread and weddings. Tika in Dashain, Bhai Tika in Tihar
