Cache-Control: max-age=0
Date: Thu, 01 Mar 2012 19:15:45 GMT
Connection: close
Taggart confident he can turn around Western Kentucky | Manatee | Bradenton Herald Today
Classifieds
Jobs
Cars
Homes
Apartments
Place an ad
Alert!
Forecast
Bradenton Herald Today
Log In or Join
Report News
Customer Service
Member Center
Sign out
Report News
Customer Service
Search
Search stories on this site
Web Search
Search print archives
Web Search powered by YAHOO! SEARCH
Home News
Local News Nation & World State News Blogs Columnists Crime Education Religion Health Lakewood Ranch Herald Florida Legislature Opinion Politics Special Reports Traffic
Business
Agriculture Banking Columnists Downtown Business Names & Faces People's Choice Port Manatee Real Estate Small Business Technology Tourism
Sports
Basketball College Fishing & Boating Golf High Schools MLB/Rays Auto Racing NFL/Bucs NHL/Lightning Marauders Sports Columnists Spring Training Tennis
Photos
Staff Photos Our Parks Our Beaches Video
Entertainment
Arts Calendar Living Food & Wine Horoscopes Movies Music Restaurants Society Television
Obituaries
Local Deals
Today's Hot Deal Local Coupons Grocery Coupons Store Circulars Local Ads
SportsHigh School SportsManatee
0 Comments
Taggart confident he can turn around Western Kentucky
By ALAN DELL — adell@bradenton.com Posted: 12:00am on Jul 16, 2010
2010-07-16T03:37:44Z
By ALAN DELL
The one thing Willie Taggart has learned since becoming a head football coach is that there is no down time.Since he took over at Western Kentucky, Taggart has been busier than a politician just before election day. He is one of the most sought after speakers in a state that already has Rick Pinto and John Calipari and next month he has a dinner engagement with the governor.That’s a big step up for an 8-year-old kid who spent a good part of his youth working in the Palmetto orange groves. “Picking oranges taught me what I didn’t want to do and that football was my way out. I had to be the best player and to do that I had to out-work everyone,” he says. Taggart has yet to coach a game since he was hired last November to turn around a Western Kentucky football program that has lost 20 straight games.But that doesn’t mean the former Manatee High quarterback hasn’t been competing and testing himself.“I’ve done more speaking engagements since I’ve been here than I did in my entire life,” Taggart says. “At first it was hard, and I had to work on it. I am a lot better at it now and a lot more comfortable. I learned how to present myself in the best way and realized I don’t have to speak so fast or be afraid.”History is also not lost on Taggart, who appears on the verge of becoming a rising star in the college football coaching ranks.This fall Kentucky will become the first and only state in the country to have three black head football coaches at its three major (FBS) colleges with Taggart, Charlie Strong at Louisville and Joker Phillips at Kentucky. It is the first head coaching job for all three, but at 34, Taggart made it up the ladder a lot quicker than the 47-year-old Phillips and Strong (49). “We talk. A lot of it is about where we are in our programs and life in general and not that much football. Right now Joker is not going to say a lot because we play each other,” he says. It has helped that Taggart was a star quarterback for the Hilltoppers from 1995-98 and is considered the best football player WKU has ever produced.The difference is that the WKU of today is headed into its third year as a Division IA program and hasn’t had any success since moving up. It doesn’t bother Taggart. When he sees insurmountable odds, he remembers his days of picking oranges with his four siblings, mom and dad. They all had to chip in to pay the rent and put food on the table.“I have been working hard all my life, and it has gotten me here. But we want to go further,” Taggart says. “The enthusiasm and excitement I have received around the state has surprised me. I’ve always wanted to be the best and tell our football team we are going to chase greatness.”Taggart caught it as a player guiding Manatee to a state championship and becoming one of only four players to have his number retired at WKU after a record setting career. He spent the past three seasons at Stanford helping Jim Harbaugh turn that program around.The WKU football program couldn’t be any lower, which is one reason many considered Taggart the best person for the job. Until his junior year at Manatee High, he and his parents and four other siblings lived in a three room apartment, an environment he feels prepared him to succeed.“That is where it all started for me, and every time I come to Manatee County to recruit I go back there,” he says. “It motivates me and reminds me that I have not changed who I am because I am a head football coach at a university. I don’t want to try and be anybody else because then I will not succeed.”With no head coaching experience, some have questioned Taggart about how he is going to turn around a program that is a doormat. Those questions do not frighten him, and this year he had the No. 1 rated recruiting class in the Sun Belt Conference.“I tell them I have no evidence that I can win, but have faith in me,” Taggart says. “Everywhere I have been as an assistant coach and a player I have won. I tell them they have a chance to be part of something special and that I am recruiting you to come in and take somebody’s job. That is the environment we are going to have around here.”Taggart has recruited heavily in Manatee County, leaving the belief that he is trying to help those who grew up in an environment similar to him. He says nothing could be further from the truth.“We are not offering them scholarships to show love. We are offering guys to come here and win football games. I know there are really good football players there,” Taggart says.
Copyright 2012 . All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.
Order a reprint
Share this story:
Top Jobs
Medical
LIFE CARE ADVERTISING
Medical
LIFE CARE CENTER%LIFECARE ADVE
Medical
FL CANCER SPECIALISTS
Medical
LIFE CARE CENTER%LIFECARE ADVE
Medical
BRADEN RIVER CARE CENTER
Skilled/Trades
CONLEY BUICK INC
NOW HIRING! APPLY TODAY - START TOMORROW
Metro Media Corporation
Office Manager
Zamikoff, Klement, Jungman & Varga
Clerical/Secretarial
ALEX KARRAS LINCOLN MERCURY
Medical
DENTAL CARE ALLIANCE
View All Top Jobs
Find a Home
3310 Riverview Blvd.
$2,895,000
Bradenton
4 bed, 5 full bath, 1 half bath.
Stunning Manatee River
