Last-Modified: Fri, 17 Apr 2009 08:50:51 GMT
Accept-Ranges: bytes
ETag: "f7829b9c39bfc91:9e4"
Server: Microsoft-IIS/6.0
MicrosoftOfficeWebServer: 5.0_Pub
X-Powered-By: ASP.NET
Date: Thu, 01 Mar 2012 17:55:37 GMT
Connection: close
Influence of ultrasound on the processing and structure of polypropylene during extrusion, Cover Story, Jobwerx.com
Search Jobwerx
Cover Story
Influence
of ultrasound on the processing and structure of polypropylene during
extrusion
INSIGHT
The effects of ultrasonic irradiation on extrusion processing and crystallization
behavior of polypropylene (PP) are examined. The results show that appropriate
irradiation intensity can prominently decrease die pressure and apparent
viscosity, increase output, reduce extrudate swell, and improve apparent
quality of PP. DSC and WAX analysis demonstrate that the crystalline structure
of PP is changed and the content of the beta crystalline increases through
ultrasonic vibration. Special effects can be induced by ultrasound, such
as strong stress, shatter and vibration, which alter the growth of PP
crystals and may favor a special crystal transformation (alpha -> beta).
INTRODUCTION
Recently, some new processing
techniques have been emerging, such as the direct application of physical
(mechanical) fields on polymer melts. The route can be realized by introducing
mechanical or ultrasonic vibrations. Compared with low-intensity vibration,
ultrasonic waves are widely employed to influence a medium through shatter,
cavitation, chemical and mechanical action, with low noise. Lemelson (1)
described an apparatus and method for controlling the internal structure
of plastics in a mold. By applying ultrasonic energy to the solidifying
material, the apparatus can control well the crystalline structure formed
during solidification. Pendleton (2) also described an ultrasonic process
to modify the crystalline structure of blown polyolefin films. Khamad
(3) reported that imposition of ultrasound on HDPE melts containing a
small amount of butyl rubber resulted in increase of cystallinity, reduction
of structural defects, and enhancement of mechanical properties. Isayev
and Levin (4-7) introduced ultrasonic vibrations to an extruder by which
they accomplished reclaiming rubber from old tires and found improvements
of some mechanical properties of the extrudate, such as strain at break
and Young's modulus. However, there is little study on crystalline structure
of PP for the case when ultrasound is employed at the die entrance.
This article studies PP extrusion
with parallel superposition of ultrasonic waves upon the die. The effects
of ultrasound vibrations during extrusion on improving processability
and crystallization of PP melts are described. EXPERIMENTAL
Materials and Experimental Setup
PP, 2401, with a melt index of
2.5 g/10 min and a density of 0.905 g/cm^sup 3^ at 25 deg C, was commercially
obtained from Yanshan Petrochemical Co., Beijing, China.
The Ultrasound-Extrusion experimental
setup consists of a single- screw extruder (d = 20 mm, L/D = 25), with
a variable cross-section capillary having high-temperature pressure transducer
and ultrasonic generator (Fig. 1). The ultrasonic frequency is 20 kHz
and power ranges from 0 to 300W. The direction of ultrasonic vibration
coincides with that of the melt flow. Samples used for all tests were
directly from extruded strands, which are short and very near to the die.
Different samples were extruded one by one at the same rotation speed,
die temperature (200 deg C) and different ultrasonic intensity. They were
then all cooled at the same room temperature.
MFI
The melt flow index of samples
was measured on an American CS- 127 Melt Flow Index measuring device at
230 deg C with a load of 2160 g.
Differential Scanning Calorimetry
RESULTS AND DISCUSSION
Die Temperature
Figure 2 shows a prominently exponential
ascendance in die temperature by introducing ultrasonic vibration during
extrusion of PP. In presence of 250 W ultrasonic intensity, die temperature
at 5 rpm jumped 10 deg C higher than without ultrasonic vibration. This
is because part of the sound energy is converted into heat energy by the
internal friction between the melt molecules. For a given shear rate,
the temperature rise is a function of ultrasonic intensity. The higher
the intensity, the more violent the molecular motion, and the greater
the temperature rise.
Die Pressure and Throughput
The dependence of die pressure
on ultrasonic intensity at different screw speed was examined. Figure
3 shows that higher ultrasonic intensity and lower rotation speed both
contribute to a larger reduction of pressure, indicating that the pressure
drop depends on the intensity and duration of ultrasonic treatment. An
increase of both factors gives the melt the chance to obtain stronger
energy from ultrasound. In addition, ultrasonic vibration during extrusion
affects the throughput of extrudate; the flow rate increases with an increase
in the ultrasonic wave intensity, as shown in Fig. 4. All of the above-mentioned
characteristics demonstrate that ultrasonic treatment will significantly
improve the extrusion efficiency.
Apparent Viscosity
The prominent pressure drops after
the introduction of ultrasound into melts are surely related to molecular
chain structure, which can be reflected in viscosity data. Figure 5 shows
the dependence of apparent viscosity on ultrasonic intensity at various
rotation speeds. Ultrasonic motions result in a sharp decrease of viscosity
of the melt. Since higher screw speed means shorter residence time, the
decrease of apparent viscosity of PP is also a function of ultrasonic
intensity and time, just like the pressure reduction. Further, Fig. 6
demonstrate that MFR increases after application of ultrasound under the
same extrusion conditions. But with low- intensity ultrasound, MFR changes
very little-from 4.2 g/10 min (OW) to 4.7 g/ 10 min (100 W). It may be
concluded that appropriate ultrasonic irradiation can accelerate molecular
motion and make long entangled macromolecular chains unravel with a low
degree of degradation.
Die Swell
The swelling of the extrudate
in capillary extrusion is a manifestation of the elastic properties and
the fading memory of the melt, and is a result of unrelaxed deformations
generated during the extrusion process. Figure 7 shows that die swell
ratios D/D^sub 0^ decrease with increasing ultrasonic irradiation power.
Since swelling is a relaxation process, energy from ultrasonic irradiation
can affect the relaxation of polymer melts by shortening the relaxation
time of chain segments, thus decreasing the elasticity of the melt at
the die entrance. It is also observed that ultrasonic waves contribute
to a smoother appearance of extrudates.
Crystalline Structure
Ultrasound can greatly improve
the processing of PP, and this effect must be a result of structural changes
of the PP chain. At the same time, PP is well known for its different
crystalline forms: alpha, beta and gamma forms. So the ultrasonic irradiation
probably induces the change of the crystal structure. To verify this hypothesis,
samples were analyzed by DSC and WAXD. Table 1 summarizes the values obtained
from DSC thermograms. T^sub c^ is the crystallization temperature, T^sub
onset^ is the temperature at the cross point of the megathermic tangent
line and the base line at angle of alpha. Si, the tangent of alpha, is
a measure of the rate of nucleation. (T^sub onset^-T^sub c^) is a measure
of overall rate of crystallization of the system, which decreases with
the increase of the crystallization rate (11). It has been found that
with the use of ultrasonic vibration, (T^sub onset^-- T^sub c^), Si and
crystallinity are lower than their respective values for a sample without
ultrasonic treatment. This indicates that ultrasound prevents nucleation
as well as accelerating the growth of PP crystal, and the decreased rate
of nucleation may lead to lower crystallinity. Furthermore, it is also
noted from Fig. 8 that in the case of ultrasound, the peak occurring at
lower temperature, which corresponds to fusion of beta-form (temperature
of the peak is about 145 deg C), becomes stronger and the enthalpy is
higher. The other hightemperature peak due to fusion of the alpha-form
is correspondingly weaker. These investigations may imply that processing
PP with ultrasound causes a preference for the growth of the beta-form
relative to that of the alpha-form.
Table 1.
It can be seen from the X-ray
diffraction patterns that PP samples with and without ultrasonic treatment
are different (Fig. 9 and Table 2). By introducing ultrasonic effects,
peaks at theta = 16 deg, 21.3 deg increase and become markedly wider (Mg.
9). In addition, Table 2 shows the values of the increase of K. According
to Turner-Jones (9), these indicate an increase of the beta-forms of polypropylene.
Moreover, the data listed in Table 2 show that nearly all the d spacing
of crystal planes of PP decrease and values of S increase with ultrasonic
treatment. The maximum contribution (K = 29.5%) and maximum order (S =
47.9%) of the beta phase are in the samples affected by ultrasonic power
of 180 W. All the above imply that ultrasonic vibrations can shorten the
distances between molecular chains and decrease the crystal defects and
disordered structure, so that the lattices of PP have an increased order.
The enhancement of the beta-form combined with the decrease of crystallinity
implies that the polymorphic transitions alpha -> beta of PP may exist
in the system.
CONCLUSION
The application of ultrasound
to extrusion can improve the processing of PP by raising the die temperature
and decreasing pressure and viscosity, thus enhancing the throughput and
appearance of extrudate\s.
The results show that this ultrasonic
process can modify the structure of crystallizable thermoplastic materials
like PP during extrusion. Ultrasonic irradiation results in a reduction
of the crystallinity of extruded PP. Ultrasound also shows a selective
effect on the growth of different crystal forms of PP, which causes an
increase of the relative amount and order of the beta-form as well as
transitions of the alpha-form to the beta-form.
ACKNOWLEDGMENT
This paper is based on results
from the subject supported by the Special Funds for Major State Basic
Research Projects (G1999064809).
Table 2.
REFERENCE
1. J. Lemelson, U.S. Patent 4,288,398
(1981).
2. J. W. Pendleton, U.S. Patent
3,298,065 (1965).
3. SI Khamad, EN Popova,
and Z. I. Salina, Deposited Doc. (RUSS), VINITI, 1829 (1984).
4. A. 1. Isayev, CM along,
and X. Zeng, Adv. Polym TechnoL, 31, 10 (1990).
5. AI Isayev and J. Chen, Rubber
Chemistry and Technology, 68, 267 (1995).
6. AI Isayev, S. P. Yushanov,
and J. Chen, J. Appl. Polym. ScL, 59, 803 (1996).
7. V. Yu. Levin and S. H. Kim,
Rubber Chemistry and Techno/ogy, 70, 120 (1997).
8. M. A. Gomez, H. Tanaka, and
A. E. Tonelli, Polymer, 28, 2227 (1987).
9. A. Tuner-Jones, J. M. Aizlewood,
and DR Beckett, MakromoL Chem., 75, 136 (1964).
10. G. Zhou, Z. He, J. Yu, Z.
Han, and G. Shi, MakromoL Chem., 187, 633 (1986).
11. AK Gupta and VB
