AlbertMohler.com – The Briefing
AlbertMohler.com
Submit
Feed
Blog
Urgent
Podcast
Video
Audio
About
Contact
Topics
Abortion
Adultery
Anglicanism
Art & Culture
Atheism
Bible
Birth Control
Books
Childhood
Church & Ministry
Church history
College & University
Court decisions
Death
Divorce
Economy & Work
Education
Embryos & Stem Cells
Environment
Ethics
Euthanasia
Evangelicalism
Evolutionism
Family
Film
Gambling
Heaven and Hell
History
Homosexuality
Islam
Jesus & the Gospel
Law & Justice
Leadership
Manhood
Marriage
Mormonism
Obituaries
Parental rights
Pluralism
Politics
Population Control
Pornography
Preaching
Publishing
Race
Religious Freedom
Roman Catholicism
SBC
Science
Secularism
Sex Education
Sexual Revolution
Singleness
Social Media & Internet
Spirituality
Sports
Technology
Theology
Trends
United States
Womanhood
Tuesday, November 23, 2010
The Briefing
Download MP3
Keywords
Audio
Related Resources
Culture War Brewing Within Tea Party?
(Podcast Links by R. Albert Mohler Jr.)
North Korea shells South in fiercest attack in decades
(Podcast Links by R. Albert Mohler Jr.)
A Flawed Faith-Based Fix
(Podcast Links by R. Albert Mohler Jr.)
North Korea Nuclear Fears Grow
(Podcast Links by R. Albert Mohler Jr.)
Divided We Eat
(Podcast Links by R. Albert Mohler Jr.)
From fast food to fine dining, business is up at restaurants
(Podcast Links by R. Albert Mohler Jr.)
Culture War Brewing within Tea Party?… North Korea shells South in fiercest attack in decades… A flawed Faith-based fix… North Korea Nuclear fears grow… Divided we eat… And from fast food to fine dining, business is up at restaurants
Download Audio
Share:
Email
Facebook
Twitter
Print
Buy on Amazon
Words From the Fire: Hearing the Voice of God in the 10 Commandments
If God has spoken, then the highest human aspiration must be to hear what the Creator has said. God has indeed spoken, through the Ten Commandments, and Al Mohler explores this revelation of God and the implications for His people. The promise is to hear, to obey, and to live. These “Ten Words” tell us who God is and what His people should look like.
Dr. R. Albert Mohler, Jr., serves as president of The Southern Baptist Theological Seminary — the flagship school of the Southern Baptist Convention and one of the largest seminaries in the world. Read more
Follow Dr. Mohler on Twitter
Find Dr. Mohler on Facebook
Subscribe to blog updates via email.
Enter your email below and click submit.
Submit
Manage all subscriptions ⇒
Related Posts
The Briefing (Audio)The Briefing (Audio)The Briefing (Audio)The Briefing (Audio)The Briefing (Audio)
Featured Posts
The Santorum Predicament: A Sign of the Times
Monday, February 27, 2012
Former Reagan speechwriter Peggy Noonan had it just right — someone had better read Rick Santorum his Miranda rights. In the big leagues of national politics, she warns, “Everything you’ve said can and will be used against you.”
• Keep Reading →
“Abortion is as American as Apple Pie” — The Culture of Death Finds a Voice
Friday, January 20, 2012
Abortion is now one of America’s most common surgical procedures performed on adults. As many as one out of three women will have at least one abortion. In some American neighborhoods, the number of abortions far exceeds the number of live births.
• Keep Reading →
Learning from Christopher Hitchens: Lessons Evangelicals Must Not Miss
Wednesday, January 11, 2012
The death of Christopher Hitchens on December 15 was not unexpected, and that seemed only to add to the tragedy.  His fight against cancer had been lived, like almost every other aspect of his colorful life, in full public view. He had told numerous interviewers that he wanted to die in an active, not a passive sense. Then again, there may never have been a truly passive moment in Christopher Hitchens’ life.
• Keep Reading →
President Obama and Same-Sex Marriage — The Dance Continues
Thursday, January 5, 2012
Some predictions are rather safe to make. 2012 is almost certain to be a determinative year on the issue of same-sex marriage. Multiple courts appear poised to strike down the Defense of Marriage Act DOMA and, even more urgently, the appeal on California’s Proposition 8 at the Ninth Circuit US Court of Appeals will set up a certain appeal to the US Supreme Court. Given the facts of this case and the significance of the nation’s most populous state, the Supreme Court
