ATAA Hosts Team USA
Amazon.com has more than 50,000 books related to Turkey. Now you can order these
titles through ATAA's association with Amazon.com and HELP ATAA.
Amazon.com will contribute a portion of the sale
to ATAA. It's easy to do !
Press Releases/News
January 16, 2012
Sign up for our Email Newsletter
ABOUT US
The ATAA, representing over 60 local chapters and 500,000 Turkish Americans throughout the United States, serves locally and nationwide to develop an informed and empowered Turkish American community, and to support strong U.S.-Turkish relations. The ATAA is a 501(c)(3) non-profit organization formed under the laws of the District of Columbia. To learn more about ATAA, please visit us at www.ataa.org
BECOME A MEMBER
By becoming a member you will be part of a network of Turkish-Americans and friends of Turkey who care about the historic relationship between the two peoples and who are aware of the crucial role each one of us plays in strengthening the relationship and promoting an accurate and fair picture of Turkey and Turks.
[Join ATAA]
ATAA Hosts Team USA
ATAA hosted a Good Luck Reception for the United States U-16 Team at JFK International Airport in New York, prior to their departure to Turkey on Turkish Airlines for the 2012 Turkish Soccer Federation Aegean Cup.
The site of the tournament, Manisa, is a historic city where the Ottoman Sultans were raised.
ATAA Regional VP Ibrahim Kurtulus and Turkish Vice Consul Umit Kilic addressed Team USA.
THY, the official carrier for FC Barcelona and Manchester United, served a cake that displayed the seals of US Soccer and THY.
VP Kurtulus expresed, "The Assembly of Turkish American Associations is proud to have a cooperation protocol with the Turkish Soccer Federation and to co-host this reception for our team, Team USA!
The US U-16 team is America's hope to win the World Cup in the future.
Soccer is one of the best ways to bridge the good people of America and Turkey."
Kurtulus further stated, "On behalf of ATAA President Ergun Kirlikovali and Past President Gunay Evinch, I
thank Turkish Airlines and the good offices of the New York Turkish Consul General Levent Bilgen for promoting sports and cultural understanding.
We wish you happy travels and great success!"
Vice Consul Kilic stated, "Sports is one of the most noble forms of fraternity.
On the occasion of the Aegean Cup 2012, you are going to a friendly, beautiful country with a compassionate people.
You will be welcomed like family.
During the tournament you will make lasting friendships.
And, the tournament will be all the better for it.
The Turkish Foreign Mission in the United States wishes you safe travels and a good time.
May you make good memories to last your whole lives."
Turkey and USA are in the same qualification group as the Czech Republic and Denmark.
The other qualification group
includes France, Ukraine, Belgium and Greece.
Turkey and the USA
