Bender Helper Impact - Games PR
Skip to content
Skip to main navigation
Skip to 1st column
Bender Helper Impact
Home
Who We AreOur Clients
Executive Team
The Portfolio
Client Testimonials
What We DoServices
Practice AreasEntertainment ContentHome Entertainment
Digital Entertainment
Television
Music
Consumer Products
Games PR
Entertainment Technology
B/HI Buzz
B/HI Evolution
B/HI Blab
Home
Games PR
Subscribe
Headlines -- Interactive Entertainment
Konami Digital Entertainment: GTI Club Superminia Festa!
El Segundo, CA - Feb. 25, 2010 - Konami Digital Entertainment, Inc. today announced that GTI Club Supermini Festa!,
the all-new high-speed racing title, is now available via download on
PSP® (PlayStation®Portable) System and PSP®go. A descendent of the
popular arcade game, GTI Club Supermini Festa! is a fast-paced
racing game that hurdles players across global terrains in
mini-customizable cars. Gamers must speed through tight bends, the back
roads of urban sprawls, up steep mountain roads, down cavernous caves,
and tackle a wide variety of driving conditions as they race to the
finish line for the checkered flag
505 Games: Two Developers Selected To Create "Grease" Video Game
AGOURA HILLS, CA - Feb. 24, 2010 – Global videogame publisher, 505 Games today announced it has selected two developers to work on the upcoming Grease
video game for Nintendo Wii™ and DS™. Based on Paramount Pictures’
classic film “Grease”, UK developer Zoë Mode will develop the Nintendo
Wii™ version and Big Head Games will develop a version for the Nintendo
DS™.
TOMY Corporation: Lovely Lisa and Friends Available on Nintendo DS and DSi
LOS ANGELES, CA – Feb. 23, 2010 – TOMY Corporation today announced that Lovely Lisa and Friends
is now available at retail outlets nationwide for the Nintendo DS and
Nintendo DSi. The release marks the second installment to the popular
fashion doll simulation game that gives girls an outlet to explore
their individual style, while simultaneously developing the skills that
promote responsible play habits.
505 Games: More Footage Revealed For Backbreaker
Agoura Hills, CA - Feb. 22, 2010 - 505 Games today unveiled the second behind-the-scenes look at Backbreaker,
showcasing how developer NaturalMotion is using its innovative Euphoria
technology for the first time in a sports video game, creating a truly
live football experience on next-gen consoles.
Konami Digital Entertainment: Draw Parking Available on Apple App Store
El Segundo, CA - Feb. 19, 2010 - Konami Digital Entertainment, Inc. today announced that Draw Parking is now available on the Apple App Store for the iPhone and iPod touch. A test of precision and skill, Draw Parking delivers challenging puzzle gaming right to players’ fingertips as they race against a strict time limit to park all the cars.
Konami Digital Entertainment: Puzzle Chronicles
El Segundo, CA - Feb. 18, 2010 - Konami Digital Entertainment, Inc. today announced that Puzzle Chronicles
is now available for download on PSP® (PlayStation®Portable) system and
PSP®go. A demo for the Windows PC download of the game is also
available today, allowing gamers to play through two complete zones and
access mini games in up to an hour of gameplay. A full version of the
Windows PC
