Date: Thu, 01 Mar 2012 20:25:56 GMT
Connection: close
Economic reform: It's the real economy, stupid - Business & Finance
SUBSCRIBE TO B&F
Archive
Markets
Members
Careers
About Us
Enter search term:
Home
Latest Issue
Latest News
Blogs
Top 1000 Companies
Publications
Events & Awards
Resource Centre
Email
Print
Latest B&F; Issue
Home > Archive > 2010 > November issue > Interviews and Features >
2011 2010December issueNovember issueCommentRound UpNewsBusiness person of the monthMarkets & EconomicsInterviews and FeaturesTechnologyComment & AnalysisOnes To WatchLifeThis WeekOctober issueSeptember issue Summer issueJune issueMay issueApril issueMarch issueFebruary issue2010 Year in Review200920082007200620052004
Facebook
Twitter
Linkedin
Economic reform: It's the real economy, stupid
The exporting sector is not the only part of the economy that needs to become smart if Ireland is to recover, says Ronnie O’Toole
It was the Nobel prize winning Paul Krugman who said that “ productivity isn’ t everything, though in the long run it’ s nearly everything. A country’ s ability to improve its standard of living over time depends almost entirely on its ability to raise its output per worker.”
He said that in 1994, though writing in 2010 he might have put these points differently. In the short- run, productivity does little to solve what is a balance-sheet recession, though in the long run it’ s nearly everything. A country’ s ability to pay back its debts while minimizing the fall in its standard of living depends almost entirely on its ability to raise its output per worker.
Productivity is once again moving centre stage. If the sovereign debt crisis had one clear positive it was the focus it started to place on growth prospects going forward. Of course in the short run, the sheer scale of retrenchment which Ireland is being forced into will result in a weaker growth than would have otherwise been the case. However as we move beyond this, productivity growth will again take over as the primary driver of welfare.
This is where the Smart Economy debate, long derided as a wordy PR distraction, will increase in relevance. What’ s disappointing about this debate is that up to now it has focused almost entirely on exporting firms, the one section of the economy that is already demonstrably smart.
The evidence of this is striking. In a research paper published in October, the ECB ranked Ireland as being the most high-tech exporting country, far outpacing Austria and Finland in second and third place respectively. The other countries with which we supposedly share so many similarities, namely Greece and Spain, were at the opposite end of the scale. In the space of twenty years Ireland has moved to the quality end of the export spectrum, and is a world leader in pharmaceuticals, information technology and services.
However the debate on how we can make our exporting sector smarter has continued in what is an increasingly redundant debate. Many of these issues have been resolved a long time ago. Should we or shouldn’ t have an active industrial policy? Answer: We should and we do. Should we turn our back on services, and concentrate on manufacturing? Answer: No we shouldn’t, nor will we.
Why then do policymakers still focus on exporters? The reason is simple. Productivity growth destroys as it creates. Improving productivity requires out-dated practices to be swept away, companies to transform and workers to re-skill. It’s difficult, often unpopular, yet crucial for long-run economic health.
However when we create an exporting operation in Ireland, the pain is felt elsewhere. Maybe a plant gets shut in Israel, or a planned expansion in the US is cancelled. Do you think that when the Polish Government was pitching to Dell that it was worried about the job losses in Limerick? Of course not. Promoting export firms is a one-way bet, and avoids having to make the really difficult decisions.
What our exporters really need now is action to reduce the cost of operating a business from Ireland.
The source of this cost is the sectors which sell into the domestic market, many of whom are anything but smart. This is not just another jab at the public sector. Many sectors dominated by private provision in Ireland remain unreformed, inefficient and expensive.
Reforming these sectors will be difficult, and the benefits aren’ t immediate. Reform must be done sector by sector, ensuring that regulation promotes competition. The Government itself must become a very demanding customer for local services through its procurement practices.
The banking sector is a case in point. Banks are the gatekeepers for Ireland’ s payments industry, the means by which we as a society pay for goods and services. Almost uniquely in Europe, the Irish payments industry remains dominated by paper – i.e. cash and cheques - at a cost of €1bn annually to the economy.
The cost of our high use of cash and cheques goes beyond pure financial concerns. Wide-scale cash usage helps perpetuate the shadow economy, at a considerable cost to ordinary, compliant taxpayers. Further, the security challenges of transporting large volumes of cash are needlessly putting the lives of bank, retail and security staff at risk. Finally, there is a strong correlation between a country’ s use of cheques and the problem of a late payments culture, which in Ireland causes huge difficulties for SMEs.
Of course the payments issue is just one example of many. The recent Forfás report, “Making it Happen, Growing Enterprise for Ireland”, sets out the range of actions needed to stimulate domestic productivity. It highlights the role of competition policy, particularly in the areas of legal and medical services, where costs remain very high despite the price falls in the rest of the economy. They also highlight public procurement as an area which needs to be overhauled. Firms react to the demands of consumers, and where the Government is the consumer it has to become far more demanding.
We are not alone in this need to tackle structural reforms. The above ECB report concluded that European policymakers have been using the strength of the Euro as an excuse for Europe
