Aldactone Information from Drugs.com
Skip to Content
Browse all medications
A
B
C
D
E
F
G
H
I
J
K
L
M
N
O
P
Q
R
S
T
U
V
W
X
Y
Z
Advanced
Phonetic
Search:
Drugs A-Z
Complete
A - Z Drug Index
Drugs by Condition
Drugs by Class
Drug Side Effects
Drug Dosage
Pregnancy Warnings
Breastfeeding Information
International Drugs
Generic Drugs
Veterinary Drugs
Natural Products
Phonetic Search
Harvard Health Topics
Medical Encyclopedia
Pill Identifier
Interactions Checker
News / Alerts
FDA Medwatch Drug Alerts
FDA Labeling Changes
Daily MedNews for Consumers
Pharmaceutical Industry News
Clinical Trial News
New Drug Approvals
New Drug Applications (Pipeline)
Get News via RSS
Get News via Twitter
Drugs.com Blog
Health Professionals
Professional Resource Center
FDA Prescribing Information
AHFS DI Monographs
A-Z Drug Facts for the Professional
Drug Interactions Checker
Patient CareNotes for the Professional
Natural Products Database
Medical Conferences
Pharmaceutical Company Directory
Medical Dictionary
Phonetic Drug Search
Community
Ask Medical Questions
Join Support Groups
Forum - Discussion Boards
Mednotes
Apps
Home › Drugs A to Z › A › Al › Aldactone Consumer Information
Print
Save or Share
Aldactone
Generic Name: spironolactone (spir ON oh LAK tone)
Brand Names: Aldactone
What is Aldactone?
Aldactone (spironolactone) is a potassium-sparing diuretic (water pill) that prevents your body from absorbing too much salt and keeps your potassium levels from getting too low.
Aldactone is used to diagnose or treat a condition in which you have too much aldosterone in your body. Aldosterone is a hormone produced by your adrenal glands to help regulate the salt and water balance in your body.
Aldactone also treats fluid retention (edema) in people with congestive heart failure, cirrhosis of the liver, or a kidney disorder called nephrotic syndrome. This medication is also used to treat or prevent hypokalemia (low potassium levels in the blood).
Aldactone may also be used for purposes not listed in this medication guide.
Important information about Aldactone
You should not use Aldactone if you are allergic to spironolactone, or if you have kidney disease, high levels of potassium in your blood, or if you are unable to urinate. Do not use potassium supplements or other diuretics while you are taking Aldactone.
Before using Aldactone, tell your doctor if you have liver disease, or if you use a steroid or another diuretic.
Drinking alcohol can increase certain side effects of Aldactone.
Avoid a diet high in salt. Too much salt will cause your body to retain water and can make this medication less effective.
Do not use salt substitutes or low-sodium milk products that contain potassium. These products could cause your potassium levels to get too high while you are taking Aldactone.
Avoid becoming overheated or dehydrated during exercise and in hot weather. Follow your doctor's instructions about the type and amount of liquids you should drink. In some cases, drinking too much liquid can be as unsafe as not drinking enough.
If you are being treated for high blood pressure, keep using Aldactone even if you feel well. High blood pressure often has no symptoms. You may need to use blood pressure medication for the rest of your life.
Before taking Aldactone
You should not use Aldactone if you are allergic to spironolactone, or if you have:
kidney disease, or if you are unable to urinate;
high levels of potassium in your blood (hyperkalemia); or
if you are taking potassium supplements or other potassium-sparing diuretics such as Aldactazide, amiloride (Midamor, Moduretic), or triamterene (Dyrenium, Dyazide, Maxzide).
To make sure you can safely take Aldactone, tell your doctor if you have any of these other conditions:
heart disease;
liver disease; or
if you are using a steroid, or another diuretic.
FDA pregnancy category C. It is not known whether Aldactone will harm an unborn baby. Tell your doctor if you are pregnant or plan to become pregnant while using this medication. Spironolactone passes into breast milk and could cause harm to a nursing baby. Do not use this medication without telling your doctor if you are breast-feeding a baby.See also: Aldactone pregnancy and breastfeeding warnings (in more detail)
How should I take Aldactone?
Take Aldactone exactly as prescribed by your doctor. Do not take in larger or smaller amounts or for longer than recommended. Follow the directions on your prescription label.
Take each dose with a full glass of water.
To be sure Aldactone is not causing harmful effects, your blood will need to be tested often. Visit your doctor regularly.
This medication can cause unusual results with certain medical tests. Tell any doctor who treats you that you are using Aldactone. If you need surgery, tell the surgeon ahead of time that you are using Aldactone. You may need to stop using the medicine for a short time. If you are being treated for high blood pressure, keep using this medication even if you feel well. High blood pressure often has no symptoms. You may need to use blood pressure medication for the rest of your life.
Store Aldactone at room temperature away from heat, light, and moisture.
See also: Aldactone dosage (in more detail)What happens if I miss a dose?
Take the missed dose as soon as you remember. Skip the missed dose if it is almost time for your next scheduled dose. Do not take extra medicine to make up the missed dose.
What happens if I overdose?
Seek emergency medical attention or call the Poison Help line at 1-800-222-1222.
Overdose symptoms may include drowsiness, confusion, red skin rash, nausea, vomiting, or diarrhea.
What should I avoid while taking Aldactone?
Drinking alcohol can increase certain side effects of Aldactone. Do not use salt substitutes or low-sodium milk products that contain potassium. These products could cause your potassium levels to get too high while you are taking Aldactone.
Avoid a diet high in salt. Too much salt will cause your body to retain water and can make this medication less effective.
Aldactone may impair your thinking or reactions. Be careful if you drive or do anything that requires you to be alert.
Avoid becoming overheated or dehydrated during exercise and in hot weather. Follow your doctor's instructions about the type and amount of liquids you should drink. In some cases, drinking too much liquid can be as unsafe as not drinking enough.
See also: Aldactone and alcohol (in more detail)
Aldactone side effects
Get emergency medical help if you have any of these signs of an allergic reaction to Aldactone: hives; difficulty breathing; swelling of your face, lips, tongue, or throat.
Stop using Aldactone and call your doctor at once if you have a serious side effect such as:
numbness or tingly feeling;
muscle pain or weakness;
slow, fast, or uneven heart rate;
feeling drowsy, restless, or light-headed;
urinating less than usual or not at all;
shallow breathing;
tremors, confusion;
nausea, upper stomach pain, itching, loss of appetite, dark urine, clay-colored stools, jaundice (yellowing of the skin or eyes); or
severe skin reaction -- fever, sore throat, swelling in your face or tongue, burning in your eyes, skin pain, followed by a red or purple skin rash that spreads (especially in the face or upper body) and causes blistering and peeling.
Less serious Aldactone side effects may include:
mild nausea or vomiting;
dizziness, headache;
gas, stomach pain; or
skin rash.
This is not a complete list of side effects and others may occur. Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects. You may report side effects to FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088.
See also: Aldactone side effects (in more detail)What other drugs will affect Aldactone?
Before using Aldactone, tell your doctor if you regularly use other medicines that make you sleepy (such as cold or allergy medicine, sedatives, narcotic pain medicine, sleeping pills, muscle relaxers, and medicine for seizures, depression, or anxiety). They can add to sleepiness caused by Aldactone.
Tell your doctor about all other medicines you use, especially:
lithium (Eskalith, Lithobid);
digoxin (digitalis, Lanoxin);
steroids such as prednisone, fluticasone (Advair), mometasone (Asmanex, Nasonex), dexamethasone (Decadron, Hexadrol) and others;
an ACE inhibitor such as benazepril (Lotensin), captopril (Capoten), fosinopril (Monopril), enalapril (Vasotec), lisinopril (Prinivil, Zestril), moexipril (Univasc), perindopril (Aceon), quinapril (Accupril), ramipril (Altace), or trandolapril (Mavik); or
an NSAID (non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug) such as ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin), naproxen (Aleve, Naprosyn, Naprelan, Treximet), celecoxib (Celebrex), diclofenac (Arthrotec, Cambia, Cataflam, Voltaren, Flector Patch, Pennsaid, Solareze), indomethacin (Indocin), meloxicam (Mobic), and others.
This list is not complete and other drugs may interact with Aldactone. Tell your doctor about all medications you use. This includes prescription, over-the-counter, vitamin, and herbal products. Do not start a new medication without telling your doctor.
More Aldactone resources
Aldactone Side Effects (in more detail)Aldactone DosageAldactone Use in Pregnancy & BreastfeedingDrug ImagesAldactone Drug InteractionsAldactone Support Group9 Reviews for Aldactone - Add your own review/rating
Aldactone Prescribing Information
(FDA)
Aldactone MedFacts Consumer Leaflet
(Wolters Kluwer)
Aldactone Monograph
(AHFS DI)
Aldactone Advanced Consumer
(Micromedex) - Includes Dosage Information
Spironolactone Prescribing Information
(FDA)
Spironolactone Professional Patient Advice
(Wolters Kluwer)
Compare Aldactone with other medications
AcneAlopeciaEdemaHeart FailureHigh Blood PressureHirsutismHypokalemiaPrimary HyperaldosteronismPrimary Hyperaldosteronism Diagnosis
Where can I get more information?
Your pharmacist can provide more information about Aldactone.
Printable Version
Email
Recommend
Tweet
Save or Share
Remember, keep this and all other medicines out of the reach of children, never share your medicines with others, and use Aldactone only for the indication prescribed.
Every effort has been made to ensure that the information provided is accurate, up-to-date, and complete, but no guarantee is made to that effect. Drug information contained herein may be time sensitive. Multum's drug information is an informational resource designed to assist licensed healthcare practitioners in caring for their patients and/or to serve consumers viewing this service as a supplement to, and not a substitute for, the expertise, skill, knowledge and judgment of healthcare practitioners. The absence of a warning for a given drug or drug combination in no way should be construed to indicate that the drug or drug combination is safe, effective or appropriate for any given patient. The information contained herein is not intended to cover all possible uses, directions, precautions, warnings, drug interactions, allergic reactions, or adverse effects
Copyright 1996-2011 Cerner Multum, Inc. Version: 8.01. Revision Date: 11/3/2011 12:07:20 PM.
Search:
Sign In or Register
Username
Password
Forgot password?
Related Aldactone Information
Availability Prescription only
CSA Schedule Not a controlled drug
Pregnancy Category Risk cannot be ruled out
Approval History
FDA approved 1960
Close
Reviews
Average User Rating
9 User Reviews
6.6 Rate it!
Related Pages
Detailed Side Effects
Pregnancy & Breastfeeding
Drug Interactions
Dosage Information
Drug Images
Support Group Q & A
Manufacturer
Pfizer Inc
Drug Class
Aldosterone receptor antagonists
Potassium-sparing diuretics
Related Drugs
High Blood Pressurelisinopril, amlodipine, metoprolol, clonidine, hydrochlorothiazide, atenolol, More...Edemahydrochlorothiazide, Lasix, furosemide, spironolactone, triamterene, chlorthalidone, More...Heart Failurelisinopril, amlodipine, metoprolol, Diovan, Norvasc, digoxin, More...Hirsutismspironolactone, Lupron, Lupron Depot, Vaniqa, leuprolide, flutamide, More...3 more conditions...
Drug Images
Aldactone 25 mg
Aldactone 50 mg
View all 3 images
Get Updates by Email
Email me about Aldactone:
News and Warnings related to this drug
FDA Medwatch Alerts
for all Medications
News Roundup
Daily
Weekly
Monthly
Email
Related News and Articles
Treatment Advances Improve the Odds for Heart Failure Patients
16 February 2012
Although a growing number of Americans now struggle with heart failure, experts say new treatments have dramatically improved both quality of life and life...
Heart Failure, Osteoporosis Go 'Hand-in-Hand': Researchers
7 February 2012
Heart failure is linked to thinning of the bones and an increased risk of fractures, a new study indicates.
The findings suggest that aggressive screening for...
Aspirin, Warfarin Fare Equally for Heart Failure Patients
3 February 2012
A major head-to-head trial finds that aspirin is equally as good as warfarin in preventing stroke and death in heart failure patients.
The researchers said...
Juventas Therapeutics Reports One Year Data From Phase I Heart Failure Clinical Trial
30 January 2012
Juventas
Therapeutics is a privately-held, clinical-stage company developing
novel regenerative therapies for treatment of cardiovascular
disease. The...
Positive Reinforcement May Help Patients Take Their Meds
27 January 2012
Positive reinforcement, such as receiving small, unexpected gifts and introducing upbeat thoughts into daily routines, seems to help patients with high blood...
Help and Support
Looking for answers? Ask a question or go join the Aldactone
