Gangsta Rap, Don Imus, Iraq and Virginia Tech/Junious Ricardo Stanton - Assata Shakur Speaks - Hands Off Assata - Let's Get Free - Revolutionary - Pan-Africanism - Black On Purpose - Liberation - Forum
Blogs
Recent Entries
Best Entries
Best Blogs
Blog List
Search Blogs
Assata Shakur Main Forum Portal Arcade
Links/Downloads
TTDC Search RBG Tube Warrior Chat The RBG Store TTDC Email Donate News
Assata Shakur Speaks - Hands Off Assata - Let's Get Free - Revolutionary - Pan-Africanism - Black On Purpose - Liberation - Forum > Word Griots / Columnists > Junious Ricardo Stanton
Gangsta Rap, Don Imus, Iraq and Virginia Tech/Junious Ricardo Stanton
User Name
Remember Me?
Password
Forgot Password? Register
Private Messages
Inbox
Sent Items
Send New Message
Track Messages
Edit Folders
Register Assata's NetworkAll ImagesBlogs FAQDonate Social Groups Calendar Mark Forums Read
Junious Ricardo Stanton Positively Black, Producer and host of "The Digital Underground" a live internet program aired Sundays from 12-2 PM Eastern time on
The Digital Underground
Share
LinkBack
Thread Tools
Display Modes
#1 (permalink)
04-17-2007
RBG Street Scholar
Google rbgstreetscholar
Join Date: Dec 2004 Location: Atlanta/Lithonia Ga
Posts: 1,462
Blog Entries: 1 Thanks: 8
Thanked 193 Times in 133 Posts
Gender: Brother
Rep Power: 168
Member's Picture Albums
Gangsta Rap, Don Imus, Iraq and Virginia Tech/Junious Ricardo Stanton
Gangsta Rap, Don Imus, Iraq and Virginia Tech/Junious Ricardo Stanton
by Junious Ricardo Stanton
“Issues of moral integrity and traditional conceptions of order have been nuetralized by slick marketing campaigns and a Western derived social propaganda of moral, political and economic liberalism. The vaunted American century is the capstone of the white/Western world’s five century expansion which has been driven by a monstrous and insatiable appetite for carnage and destruction, as it progressed toward world domination and ‘supremacy’. The genocidal campaigns and colonial settlement of the Americas and Australia and the libidinous genetic infusion into the gene pools of every racial type that succumbed to its campaigns of terror and destruction evidence the insane barbarism of the “Western man” and his ‘civilization”. These historic conditions partially frame the condition of the Afrikan world at the close of the 20th century.” The Sankofa Movement ReAfrikanization and the Reality o War by Kwame Agyei & Akua Nson Akoto Page 11
The Don Imus issue is gradually making its way to the back burner of media exposure and thus our consciousness, the ruling elites having decided that’s enough of that. Now we are being bombarded by the media giving us minute by minuet coverage of the carnage and slaying on the campus of Virginia Tech. In the backdrop the ongoing war and occupation of Iraq and the incessant Sabre rattling directed at Iran is just enough to keep us on edge as the beat goes on. Meanwhile, black folks continue to degrade, debase and kill each other at an ever increasingly alarming rate.
I was watching the Oprah Winfrey television show yesterday, her “Town Meeting” focusing on the Don Imus brouhaha when the local ABC affiliate interrupted her program to provide more information on the situation at Virginia Tech. Prior to the interruption psychologist Dr. Robin Smith was explaining to Oprah and her audience the Don Imus incident was not
really about Don Imus, it was actually deeply indicative of the spiritual void at the core of AmeriKKKa. She explained it was not just the Rutgers student athletes who were being demeaned, it was all of AmeriKKKa. She said succinctly that anytime a person denigrates another they also tear themselves. Dr. Smith is on the case on this one. When we look at AmeriKKKa we see a nation with a long and continuous history of wanton violence, bloodletting, genocide and rapine.
The Europeans who invaded and settled this hemisphere brought their culture of war, pillage, plunder social and ecological disruption with them. In fact they have carried that tradition everywhere they have set foot on planet earth! Given this is their historical legacy, why are we shocked at a Don Imus who spews insults and epithets at black people in an effort to “entertain” his mostly white male listeners. Words are an outgrowth of thoughts as are actions. Take a look around and ask yourself what are the real values AmeriKKKa disseminates to the world?
Now white pretend to be shocked at what happened at Virginia Tech just like they did at Columbine High School years ago. Nonsense! These are the real notions white AmeriKKKa holds dear. The killers are merely expressing the real motives, values and psychology of AmeriKKKa.
Dr. Amos Wilson once noted white people’s true psychology and values aren’t found in their psychology books or their religious dogma, their real values are found in their history. As tragic as the murders were at Virginia Tech a brother reminded us via E-mail that the biggest murder spree in AmeriKKKa took place in Tulsa Oklahoma in 1921 when rampaging whites went berserk and burned thirty-five blocks in the black neighborhood of Greenwood in North Tulsa. Even the National Guard who were called in to restore order turned on the blacks who had armed to defended themselves against the marauding mob, opening fire on the blacks who were huddled together to defend themselves against vicious attack.
What do you expect in the most violent country on the face of the earth? This is just one example of the state using its considerable powers to turn on the indigenous inhabitants of this land as well as the Africans they imported here! What the National Guard no longer does to black folks in AmeriKKKa it now does to Iraqis in Iraq under the guise of a bogus War on Terrorism. The hatred white folks used to spew on blacks in 1921 with impunity Don Imus now does on the radio in 2007. Only this time his corporate master’s kicked him off the train to save their hides when the pressure got a little to high for them. It is business as usual for the barbarians. The most tragic aspect of all this is we have internalized the barbarians’ fear and loathing of Africans. Our children now degrade and act out every vile and negative stereotype created in the demented psyches of European males. This is not by accident. The Europeans discovered long ago the best way to dummy us down, stupify and neutralize us was to use our own music as a weapon on us! Just when our young people were using the new genre of Hip-Hop to carry on the liberation struggle, the white corporate oligarchy altered the music scene and provided a counter to conscious rappers like Public Enemy and KRS-One. They began to promote degenerates like 2 Live Crew and NWA. Before long a new substrata of Hip-Hop a rough, gritty and sociopathic style called Gangsta Rap took root in the hood, it was aggressively promoted on the white owned cable, FM stations and later in films and videos.
When wise elders like C. Delores Tucker and Rev. Calvin Butts stepped up to warn us about the potentially negative and damaging impact of Gangsta Rap in the ‘90's they were viciously attacked mocked and derided by apolitical retrograde corporate mercenaries. Two years ago when Bill Cosby stood up to challenge the insanity he too was vilified by the corporate stooges and lackeys. These uncultured synchophats denounced their detractors under the guise of cultural authenticity, saying they were “keeping it real”. Their lack of historical insight was matched only by their arrogance. These semi literate buffoons actually think their retrograde brand of creativity is the first form of black music to be authentic and true to the black experience! Since most of them are not real musicians they know nothing about the Blues, or the circumstances, situations and artists that created them. Or anything else that flowed from the black experience.
But the truth of the matter is, we must assume responsibility for their ignorance. We failed to teach them our history. We failed to connect them with the struggles of men on the chain gangs, on the plantations who created the work songs and shouts. We neglected to tell them about the struggles Charlie Parker, Billie Holiday, Sam Cook or Veejay Records waged for artistic freedom and a real pay day. Now these chickens have come home to roost in our homes and communities. Don Imus got fired over his latest racist remarks even though our reaction was misguided. If Imus got fired, how is it a whole pack of decadent “black” slime merchants gets a free pass to degrade and perpetual the vilest stereotypes against their own people? How do sane people allow this to happen?
How does the ruling oligarchy dupe the masses of AmeriKKKans into allowing them to kill, maim and steal the natural resources of Iraq, Haiti, Afghanistan or whatever country you want in the blank. How is it there is no outcry over the more than 600,000 Iraqis the US has slaughtered during the past four years? These things happen for the same reasons there was no outcry against the slaughter of the Native Americans or African people. The so called good white folks lack the will to change things. We as African people are too impotent to stop the escalating fratricide in our communities, the prostitution of our creativity and the use of our genius to subjugate, castrate and dehumanize ourselves. That is the bottom line! We seem to have lost the
will to resist, redeem ourselves or fight for our survival. One Afrocentric psychologist says we suffer from “survival fatigue” we’re too beat down to resist and fight for our survival.
I suspect we suffer more from what I call the sell out syndrome than anything else. Our kids don’t know who we/they are,. They don’t know the resilient and strong people they come from, all they know is they don’t want to be African
