William Cavendish, 4th duke of Devonshire (prime minister of Great Britain) -- Britannica Online Encyclopedia
HOME
BROWSE
BLOG
ADVOCACY
HELP
WORKSPACE
With all of these words
With the exact phrase
With any of these words
Without these words
Username:
Password:
Remember meForgot your password?
Create a new workspace
Help
"Email" is the e-mail address you used when you registered.
"Password" is case sensitive.
If you need additional assistance, please contact customer support.
Enter the e-mail address you used when enrolling for Britannica Premium Service and we will e-mail your password to you.
Search Site:
Advanced Search
Home
Encyclopædia Britannica
(5)
Emil Devrient (German actor)
Devils Lake (North Dakota, United States)
devitrification (crystallography)
devolution (government and politics)
Devonport (Tasmania, Australia)
Table of ContentsWilliam Cavendish, 4th duke of DevonshireArticleCitations
Article
Citations
EDIT
SAVE
PRINT
E-MAIL
Video, Images & Audio
Related Articles, Ebooks & More
Web Links
Article History
Contributors
Dictionary
& Thesaurus
Workspace
Widgets
William Cavendish, 4th duke of Devonshire
ARTICLE
from the
Encyclopædia Britannica
Get involved
Share
William Cavendish, 4th duke of Devonshire,  (born 1720—died October 3, 1764, Spa, Liège, Austrian Netherlands [now in Belgium), prime minister of Great Britain from November 1756 to May 1757, at the start of the Seven Years' War.
Eldest son of William Cavendish, the 3rd Duke (1698–1755), he was elected to the House of Commons in 1741 and 1747, and in 1751 he moved to the House of Lords, as Lord Cavendish of Hardwick, in his father’s barony. After becoming lord lieutenant and governor-general of Ireland (1754), he succeeded to the dukedom (1755); and the following year he agreed to become nominal prime minister. William Pitt had refused to serve in the ministry of the Duke of Newcastle, and the great Whig families balked at Pitt himself becoming prime minister. Thus, Devonshire was summoned to the post, while Pitt became the ministry’s real authority as secretary of state to manage the war. When Pitt reconciled with Newcastle the following year, Devonshire, without having made much of a mark on events, resigned and became lord chamberlain of the household, a post he held until 1762.
LINKS
Related Articles
Aspects of the topic William Cavendish, 4th duke of Devonshire are discussed in the following places at Britannica.
Assorted References
history of United Kingdom  (in  United Kingdom: Conflict abroad)
Citations
To cite this page:
MLAAPAHarvardChicago Manual of Style
MLA Style:
"William Cavendish, 4th duke of Devonshire."
Encyclopædia Britannica. Encyclopædia Britannica Online Academic Edition.
Encyclopædia Britannica Inc., 2012. Web.
01 Mar. 2012.
<http://www.britannica.com/EBchecked/topic/160354/William-Cavendish-4th-Duke-of-Devonshire-Marquess-of-Hartington-Earl-of-Devonshire-Baron-Cavendish-of-Hardwick>.
APA Style:
William Cavendish, 4th duke of Devonshire.
(2012).
In Encyclopædia Britannica.
Retrieved from http://www.britannica.com/EBchecked/topic/160354/William-Cavendish-4th-Duke-of-Devonshire-Marquess-of-Hartington-Earl-of-Devonshire-Baron-Cavendish-of-Hardwick
Harvard Style:
William Cavendish, 4th duke of Devonshire 2012.
Encyclopædia Britannica Online. Retrieved 01 March, 2012, from http://www.britannica.com/EBchecked/topic/160354/William-Cavendish-4th-Duke-of-Devonshire-Marquess-of-Hartington-Earl-of-Devonshire-Baron-Cavendish-of-Hardwick
Chicago Manual of Style:
Encyclopædia Britannica Online, s. v.
"William Cavendish, 4th duke of Devonshire,"
accessed March 01, 2012, http://www.britannica.com/EBchecked/topic/160354/William-Cavendish-4th-Duke-of-Devonshire-Marquess-of-Hartington-Earl-of-Devonshire-Baron-Cavendish-of-Hardwick.
While every effort has been made to follow citation style rules, there may be some discrepancies. Please refer to the appropriate style manual or other sources if you have any questions.
About Us
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use
RSS Feeds
E-mail Updates
Contact Us
MORE...
IMAGES
Devonshire, William Cavendish, 4th Duke of, Marquess of Hartington, Earl of Devonshire, Baron Cavendish of Hardwick [Mary Evans Picture Library]
REFERENCED IN
RELATED TO
EBOOKS, PRIMARY SOURCES & MAGAZINES
Assorted References
history of United Kingdom  (in  United Kingdom: Conflict abroad)
PeopleThe following are some people associated with "William Cavendish, 4th duke of Devonshire"
William Cavendish, 4th duke of Devonshire (prime minister of Great Britain)
PlacesThe following are some places associated with "William Cavendish, 4th duke of Devonshire"
Great Britain (island, Europe)
OtherThe following is a selection of items (artistic styles or groups, constructions, events, fictional characters, organizations, publications) associated with "William Cavendish, 4th duke of Devonshire"
government
House of Commons (British government)
House of Lords (British government)
prime minister (government official)
Quick FactsThe following are quick facts associated with "William Cavendish, 4th duke of Devonshire"
Facts about William Cavendish, 4th duke of Devonshire: history of United Kingdom, as discussed in United Kingdom: Conflict abroad:
When did William Cavendish, 4th Duke of Devonshire, Marquess of Hartington, Earl of Devonshire, Baron Cavendish of Hardwick die?
Where did William Cavendish, 4th Duke of Devonshire, Marquess of Hartington, Earl of Devonshire, Baron Cavendish of Hardwick die?
No Additional Content
BRITANNICA INTERNET GUIDE
BRITANNICA WEB SEARCH
Britannica's Web Search provides an algorithm that improves the results of a standard web search.
Try searching the web for the topic William Cavendish, 4th duke of Devonshire.
DICTIONARY
THESAURUS
No results found.
Type a word or double click on any word to see a definition from the Merriam-Webster Online Dictionary.
Type a word or double click on any word to see a definition from the Merriam-Webster Online Dictionary
