Server: Microsoft-IIS/7.0
X-AspNet-Version: 2.0.50727
X-Powered-By: ASP.NET
Date: Fri, 02 Mar 2012 00:31:40 GMT
Connection: close
Monroe College - Fall 2010 On-campus Recruiting Calendar
Home / Career Advancement / On–Campus Recruiting / Archive / Fall 2010 On-campus Recruiting Calendar
Last updated: 12/29/2010
FALL 2010 ON CAMPUS RECRUITMENT CALENDAR
NYPD Cadet Corp
The Cadet Corp is a unique opportunity to experience the rewards of a police career and test your ability and commitment to improve the quality of life for the people of NYC. The Cadet Corp provides qualified indivs. with a chance to experience the challenges and personal rewards of a career in the NYPD.
They offer PAID internships/tuition reimbursement. Take advantage of this great opportunity.
Information BoothBronx campusTuesdays in the month of Sept. King Hall lobby
New Rochelle campusThursdays in the month of Sept.Room TBA
H&R Block
H&R Block will visit the Bronx campus on Sept. 8th and Sept. 14th to offer their $300 tax preparation course for FREE to all Monroe accounting and business students and graduates.
The tax course is held in a classroom environment at H&R Block offices throughout the NYC metropolitan area. Their instructors are chosen according to their experience and specialized training in tax return preparation.
The class consists of a total of 84 hours of instruction. Classes meet two or three times a week in three – hour sessions, or once per weekend in longer sessions. Classes will begin in September and run through the middle of November. Course program includes interactive, professional discussions, one – one instructor assistance, hands on experience with the latest tax software, and real world tax preparation exercises.
Interviews for Tax Preparation Course
Bronx campus
Sept. 8    12:15PM West Hall Room 919
Sept. 14    6:30 PM West Hall Room 905
Failure Free Reading
Recruiters from Failure Free Reading (FFR) are coming to the Bronx campus to recruit students for part – time administrative positions. FFR is a reading intervention program designed for students in grades K – 12 who have reading difficulties.
They are looking for Program Assistants and Administrative Assistants to work in schools throughout NYC.
Qualifications:
Minimum AAS degree in Business
Duties:
Assist with Administrative duties
Collect / submit payroll timesheets
Write correspondence, agreements, contracts
Reconcile student’s attendance to Dept of Educ.
Make calls to parents of students
Assist in taking attendance
Maintain a list of parents contact information
Salary:
$15 per hour
MAKE SURE TO BRING YOUR RESUME & DRESS FOR SUCCESS
Interviews
Thursday, Sept. 16th, 12:00 - 2:00 PM
Bronx campus
West Hall, Room 917
Twenty First Century Urology
The office manager from a Bronx based urology medical practice is coming to the Bronx campus to recruit allied health students for medical Assistant positions
Interviews
Friday, Sept. 17th, 1:00 PM
Bronx campus
Room T/B/A
US State Department Bureau of Diplomatic Security
Recruiters from the US State Department Bureau of Diplomatic Security will conduct an on campus information session.
The Bureau of Diplomatic Security (DS) is the security and law enforcement arm of the US Department of State. DS is a world leader in international investigations, threat analysis, cyber security, counterterrorism, security technology, and protection of people, property, and information.
Positions Available:Special Agents
Recruitment SessionBronx campusMonday , September 21 12:00-1PMWest Hall, Room 919
Spirit Cruises
Recruiters from Spirit Cruises will come to the Bronx campus to talk with hospitality and culinary students about employment opportunities aboard their Spirit City Cruise boats.
They plan on recruiting for Dining Room and Kitchen Supervisors, Waiters, Server’s Assistants, Bartenders, Cooks, and Guest Service Representatives.
Spirit Cruises offers competitive salary and flexible work schedules, perfect for a college student. Come and meet with their representatives.
Information Session
Thursday, Sept 23rd, 12:10 PM
Bronx campus
Room T/B/A
Champion Learning Center
Recruiters from the Champion Learning Center will conduct an on campus recruitment session.
Champion Learning Center provides one-on-one in home tutoring and test preparation services for students in grades K-12. The specialize in reading, writing, math and study skills.
Positions Available:
Tutors
On Campus Recruitment Session
Thursday , September 23th, 12:00-1PM
West Hall, Room 919
INROADS
Recruiters from Inroads, a not for profit organization that assists students in obtaining internships with companies will come to the NR campus to discuss their services with students.
Information Session
New Rochelle campusSept. 28  12:00 Main Hall, Room 515Oct. 5      12:00  Constable Hall, Room 303
CJ Lunch and Learn: Immigration and Customs Enforcement
Recruiters from the Immigration and Customs Enforcement Center conduct an on information session.
US Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE), an agency of the Department of Homeland Security, protects national security and upholds public safety by targeting criminal networks and terrorist organizations that seek to exploit vulnerabilities in our immigration system, in our financial networks, along our border, at federal facilities and elsewhere in order to do harm to the United States. The end result is a safer, more secure America.
Information SessionBronx campusTuesday , September 28th, 12:00-1PMJerome Hall, room TBA
U.S. Information Services
USIS is the leading provider of background investigations for the US federal government. With their highly experienced team of investigators, they mitigate risk with accurate in-depth investigations in a range of areas including background investigations, EEO site investigations and fraud.
Information SessionNew Rochelle campusSept. 29  12:05Room - TBA
American Cancer Society
Recruiters from the American Cancer Society, a not for profit organization that assists in raising funds for cancer research as well as assisting cancer patients will come to the BX campus to discuss job and internship opportunities.
Information SessionBronx campusSept. 30   12:00PMRoom TBA
United Water
United Water is a nationwide water company dedicated to supplying communities with world class service.
Headquartered in nearby Bergen County, NJ and with locations in Westchester County, they have opportunities in business development, corporate communications, customer service, facilities and administrative services, finance, accounting, human resources, human resources, information technology and quality control.
Come to the information sessions to learn more about opportunities with this outstanding company.
Information Session
Thursday, October 7th, 12:10 Bronx campus
Tuesday, October 19th, 12:10 NR campus
(rooms T/B/A)
U.S. Customs and Border Protection
US Customs and Border Protection is one of the Department of Homeland Security’s largest and most complex components, with a priority mission of keeping terrorists and their weapons out of the US It has a responsibility for securing and facilitating trade and travel while enforcing hundreds of US regulations, including immigration and drug laws.
They will meet with CJ majors who want to gain real life experience from professionals within the field, plus information on careers / internships within the agency.
Information SessionNew Rochelle campusOct. 13    12:05Room - TBA
NY State Police
NYS Troopers duties encompasses everything from traditional patrol duties to highly specialized investigations. Troopers must be prepared to deal with a never ending variety of situations and people. The NYS Police is a full service agency which means that Troopers not only enforce the vehicle and traffic law, but are the primary law enforcement officers in many regions across the state.
This is a great opportunity to learn about the various career fields they offer for CJ, Accounting, and Business majors.
The recruiter will be registering CJ students for the next upcoming State Trooper exam.
Information SessionWed. Oct. 13  12:05Room - TBA
Northwestern  Mutual Financial
Northwestern Mutual, its subsidiaries and affiliates offer insurance, investment products and advisory services that address client need for financial protection, capital accumulation, and estate preservation and distribution. Products and services for the personal, business, estate and pension markets include permanent and term insurance, disability income insurance, long term care insurance, annuities, trust services and mutual funds.
They are coming to our Bronx campus to meet with Business majors interested in a career in the financial services sector. Career paths exist in several areas including account management.
If you have ever dreamed of working for a leader in the financial services market, then you simply MUST attend this special event.
Information Session
Thursday, October 14th
Bronx campus, 12:10 PM
Room: T/B/D
Montefiore Medical Center
Recruiters from Montefiore Medical Center will come to the Bronx campus to talk with students about important career planning topics including skills assessment, resume writing, interviewing skills, and job search strategies.
They will also talk about what they look for in evaluating candidates, and make recommendations on the best way to prepare yourself by developing your own personal “branding.”
Do not miss this very important workshop which can greatly help you in obtaining the perfect job for YOU!
Information Session
Thursday, October 21st
Bronx campus, 12:10 PM
Room: T/B/D
BOY SCOUTS
INTERVIEWS
Bronx campus
November 3  12:00
West Hall Room 919
Boy Scouts will be coming to the College to recruit students for part – time after school tutoring positions. If interested, please bring a copy of your resume and dress for an interview.
AEROPOSTALE
INTERVIEWS
Bronx campus
November 16  12:00
West Hall, OCA
Recruiters from the large retail chain Aeropostale will come to campus to recruit students for seasonal openings at their Yonkers, NY store.
Openings include Sales Associates, Merchandise Flow Associates (Stock
