Cache-Control: max-age=1200
X-Cache: MISS from parent1.ghm.zope.net
X-Cache: MISS from cache3.ghm.zope.net
Via: 1.0 parent1.ghm.zope.net:80 (squid/2.7.STABLE9), 1.0 cache3.ghm.zope.net:80 (squid)
Vary: Accept-Encoding
Connection: close
Dude, Your Ride is Here: Nissan’s JUKE - West Frankfort, IL - The Daily American
Search our print archives »
Newspaper Ads
Jobs
Place an Ad
Classifieds
Real Estate
Autos
e-Edition
Homepage
News
Sports
Lifestyle
Business
Entertainment
Photos
Obituaries
Video
Local Loop
Blogs
Facebook
Twitter
Calendar
Online Forms
Education
Police and Fire
State News
Cards
Cubs
White Sox
Bears
Rams
NFL
Blackhawks
Blues
Illinois Football
Big 10
SIU-C
SportsTwitter
Family
Food
Health
Home & Garden
Branded Content
Arts
Movies
Music
Video
Hot Links
Illinois Politics
Public Notices
Photo Galleries
St. Louis Cardinals
Saluki Sports
Fighting Illini
Global Storm Tracker
Regional Events
Test Drive
Syndicated auto writer Silvio Calabi reviews the latest cars and trucks.
Updated Oct 28, 2011 @ 04:04 PM
Dude, Your Ride is Here: Nissan’s JUKE
Elegant, no; useful and entertaining, for sure: the Nissan Juke.
WHEN CARLOS GHOSN took over as CEO, more than a decade ago, Nissan was bleeding cash and a lot of its products were forgettable, me-too copies of various Hondas and Toyotas. Since then Mr. Fix-It—as he became known—has overturned Nissan like, well, like a tsunami. But a tsunami of goodness! Now mainstream Nissans are praised for delivering value-for-dollar and fine driving dynamics, and the company also makes lustworthy cars for motorheads (the 370Z, the GT-R, the G-series Infinitis) and even ecophiliacs. Nissan’s zero-emission Leaf is the world’s first mass-produced electric vehicle.
There’s a dark lining to every silver cloud, though, and for Nissan it’s the urge to build cars for Generation X. Or maybe it’s Y or even Z by now; they who wear their ball caps sideways and call me “dude.” Thus Nissan also makes the two ugliest vehicles this side of the former Soviet Bloc: the cube (no capital letter) and this, the JUKE (all capitals). Every time I see it I think of a rhinoceros calf. Then I climb in and drive away and am reminded that rhinos are remarkably agile animals. And their babies are actually sort of cute.
No question that the Juke is right-sized for today’s new reality, at least for drivers who don’t cart Little League teams around. (It’s the same length as a Mini Countryman.) The rear seats are tolerable for two adults, so long as they’re not six-footers, and you can stack a week’s groceries inside the tailgate without having to fold them down. The back seats, that is. By the way, this does have rear doors; the latches are up there by the windows. Fuel economy that is only in the mid-20s is disappointing, but consider two things: This Juke has all-wheel drive, which adds weight; and all Jukes have a 1.6-liter, four-cylinder engine tuned for 188 horsepower. Those ponies make the Juke pretty lively. Dipping into the throttle squirts the car through traffic, while sensors and a computer keep a close eye on wheel spin. We’ve gotten accustomed to AWD systems that split power between the front and rear wheels as needed, but this Nissan can also divide it side-to-side, at least at the back wheels. (The 2WD Juke is pulled around by its front wheels, and it lacks independent suspension at the rear wheels.) In hard cornering or acceleration I can feel the car settle down under the grip of the AWD. Then the Juke corners nimbly and with a lot less understeer than expected. The steering is quick enough to contribute to this deftness.
A 6-speed manual gearbox is available. The automatic transmission is a continuously variable type with Sport and Eco modes. Nissan says these settings also tweak the steering and throttle behavior; I can’t tell the difference, but the CVT does perform well.
For 2012 Nissan offers eight models of Juke: S CVT FWD, S CVT AWD, SV CVT FWD, SV M/T FWD, SV CVT AWD, SL CVT FWD, SL M/T FWD and SL CVT AWD. I think this means there’s one for every budget, priced from the high teens to the middle twenties, and all manner of upper-end options are on the menu. Our sample has leather seats, satnav and satradio, a USB port, push-button starting, stereo and cruise-control switches in the steering wheel and so on. I can do without the oddly contoured garnet-red console, but now I’m just being an old fuddy-duddy.
It’s not a joke, it’s a Juke. And, as the saying has it, when you’re behind the wheel, the ugly goes away.
« Back to blog
Comments
Thank you for the abuse report.
We will review the report and take appropriate action.
Loading comments...
Search This Blog
Follow This Blog
RSS
About this blog
>
Silvio Calabi reviews the latest from Detroit, Munich, Yokohama, Gothenburg, Crewe, Seoul and wherever else interesting cars are born. Silvio is a charter member of the New England Motor Press Association whose automotive reviews date back to the Reagan
