AlbertMohler.com – The Black Church and the Prosperity Gospel
AlbertMohler.com
Submit
Feed
Blog
Urgent
Podcast
Video
Audio
About
Contact
Topics
Abortion
Adultery
Anglicanism
Art & Culture
Atheism
Bible
Birth Control
Books
Childhood
Church & Ministry
Church history
College & University
Court decisions
Death
Divorce
Economy & Work
Education
Embryos & Stem Cells
Environment
Ethics
Euthanasia
Evangelicalism
Evolutionism
Family
Film
Gambling
Heaven and Hell
History
Homosexuality
Islam
Jesus & the Gospel
Law & Justice
Leadership
Manhood
Marriage
Mormonism
Obituaries
Parental rights
Pluralism
Politics
Population Control
Pornography
Preaching
Publishing
Race
Religious Freedom
Roman Catholicism
SBC
Science
Secularism
Sex Education
Sexual Revolution
Singleness
Social Media & Internet
Spirituality
Sports
Technology
Theology
Trends
United States
Womanhood
The Black Church and the Prosperity Gospel
Friday, October 1, 2010
The scandals surrounding Atlanta’s Bishop Eddie Long now center on allegations of sexual immorality put forth by four young men who had been teenagers under his ministry. But previous attention had been directed at the financial elements of his ministry at Atlanta’s New Birth Missionary Baptist Church.
Eddie Long is a teacher of prosperity theology, a perverse distortion of the gospel that transforms the message of Christ into a message of secular salvation through wealth and prosperity. Scholars of the movement have studied why it is that poor, disadvantaged, and disenfranchised people seem so drawn to a false gospel that leaves them poor but makes their preachers wealthy. They seem to find encouragement and hope, even a source of pride, in a pastor who preaches prosperity and lives in ostentatious wealth, even as they contribute their own meager funds.
The Bible is clear in warning against false prophets who preach false gospels and those who would use spiritual authority for their own wealth. The world is scandalized by the false promises of prosperity, and believers in Christ should be just as scandalized about this false promise. But Christians should be far more concerned about the eternal consequences of prosperity theology — its false promise of salvation through financial abundance, of health and wealth through the exercise of “seed faith.” Missing from the prosperity gospel is the message of salvation through faith in Christ alone — a salvation that makes every believer unspeakably wealthy in the grace of Christ but does not promise earthly riches or unblemished physical health.
Writing in the “Houses of Worship” column in today’s edition of The Wall Street Journal, DeForest B. ["Buster"] Soaries, Jr., pastor of the First Baptist Church of Lincoln Gardens in Somerset, New Jersey, writes of the scandal of the prosperity gospel and its popularity among African American churches:
The prosperity gospel—the idea that God guarantees truly faithful
believers physical health and financial wealth—is not new. But cable and
satellite television broadcasting have turned prosperity preachers into
celebrities that have followings similar to musicians and movie stars.
A movement and a theology that once seemed like an aberration among
black churches now appears to be mainstream.
He writes further:
Teaching that desire for more material possessions is a sign of one’s
religious piety is simply offering a justification for crass
consumerism. Prosperity theology elevates greed to a virtue instead of
leaving it as one of the seven deadly sins.
Of course, it is much easier for clergy to preach this gospel when they
are living proof that the “system” works. Hence the celebrity-like
lifestyles of so many religious leaders. The fact that the people most
likely to do well in the prosperity gospel movement are the people at
the top suggests that it is all an ecclesiastical pyramid scheme.
Soaries seems mostly concerned in this article about the false promises of wealth and the economic effects of these teachings on African Americans. All Christians should share his outrage and know that prosperity theology is found among all races and ethnicities. The television screens are filled with their messages and heresies.
But the central problem with prosperity theology is that is is a false gospel. The prosperity preachers do not promise too much. They promise all the wrong things.
Of course, The Wall Street Journal is an interesting place to find an article on prosperity theology. The editors of that famous newspaper know what leads to financial wealth — that is their business — and they know that prosperity theology leads into deeper poverty. It’s only those at the top who drive the expensive cars and ride in private jets.
DeForest B. Soaries, Jr., “Black Churches and the Prosperity Gospel,” The Wall Street Journal, Friday, October 1, 2010.
Related Posts
The Gospel and Worldly Wealth: the Myth of the Prosperity Gospel (Audio)It Promises Far Too Little — The False Gospel of Prosperity Theology (Audio)Does God Want Us to Be Rich?
TIME Looks at Prosperity TheologyProsperity Theology With a SmileAre We Promised Prosperity?
Share:
Email
Facebook
Twitter
Print
Buy on Amazon
Words From the Fire: Hearing the Voice of God in the 10 Commandments
If God has spoken, then the highest human aspiration must be to hear what the Creator has said. God has indeed spoken, through the Ten Commandments, and Al Mohler explores this revelation of God and the implications for His people. The promise is to hear, to obey, and to live. These “Ten Words” tell us who God is and what His people should look like.
Dr. R. Albert Mohler, Jr., serves as president of The Southern Baptist Theological Seminary — the flagship school of the Southern Baptist Convention and one of the largest seminaries in the world. Read more
Follow Dr. Mohler on Twitter
Find Dr. Mohler on Facebook
Subscribe to blog updates via email.
Enter your email below and click submit.
Submit
Manage all subscriptions ⇒
Popular
Shared
The Santorum Predicament: A Sign of the Times
Casino Culture and the Collapse of Character
When the Accounts Are Called: A Christian Understanding of Gambling
Torah and Truth: Theology in the Obituary Pages
The Briefing 02-27-12
The Briefing 02-24-12
The Briefing 02-29-12
The Santorum Predicament: A Sign of the Times
Casino Culture and the Collapse of Character
When the Accounts Are Called: A Christian Understanding of Gambling
Can Christians Use Birth Control?
The Family Torn Apart -- Richard Wolff on Economics and Family Life
The Reformation of Doctrine and the Renewal of the Church: A Response to Dr. William R. Estep
The Subtle Body -- Should Christians Practice Yoga?
Featured Posts
The Santorum Predicament: A Sign of the Times
Monday, February 27, 2012
Former Reagan speechwriter Peggy Noonan had it just right — someone had better read Rick Santorum his Miranda rights. In the big leagues of national politics, she warns, “Everything you’ve said can and will be used against you.”
• Keep Reading →
“Abortion is as American as Apple Pie” — The Culture of Death Finds a Voice
Friday, January 20, 2012
Abortion is now one of America’s most common surgical procedures performed on adults. As many as one out of three women will have at least one abortion. In some American neighborhoods, the number of abortions far exceeds the number of live births.
• Keep Reading →
Learning from Christopher Hitchens: Lessons Evangelicals Must Not Miss
Wednesday, January 11, 2012
The death of Christopher Hitchens on December 15 was not unexpected, and that seemed only to add to the tragedy.  His fight against cancer had been lived, like almost every other aspect of his colorful life, in full public view. He had told numerous interviewers that he wanted to die in an active, not a passive sense. Then again, there may never have been a truly passive moment in Christopher Hitchens’ life.
• Keep Reading →
President Obama and Same-Sex Marriage — The Dance Continues
Thursday, January 5, 2012
Some predictions are rather safe to make. 2012 is almost certain to be a determinative year on the issue of same-sex marriage. Multiple courts appear poised to strike down the Defense of Marriage Act DOMA and, even more urgently, the appeal on California’s Proposition 8 at the Ninth Circuit US Court of Appeals will set up a certain appeal to the US Supreme Court. Given the facts of this case and the significance of the nation’s most populous state, the Supreme Court is almost certain to take the case. This sets the stage for the courts to make some determinative statement on same-sex marriage within the next several months — a decision that will go a long way toward setting the direction of the larger culture.
• Keep Reading →
Books by R. Albert Mohler, Jr.
Amazon
Barnes & Noble
Amazon
Barnes & Noble
Amazon
Barnes & Noble
Amazon
Barnes & Noble
Amazon
Barnes & Noble
Amazon
Barnes & Noble
Other Websites
Content Copyright © 2002-2012, R. Albert Mohler, Jr. Contact Reprint Permission Privacy Policy Terms of Use
Email to a friend.
Enter your friend’s email address below and a personal message if you wish. If you leave the message area blank a standard message will be included instead.
* = Required
Enter message below:
Send Message
You are sending:
The Black Church and the Prosperity Gospel
The scandals surrounding Atlanta’s Bishop Eddie Long now center on allegations of sexual immorality put forth by four young men who had been teenagers under his ministry. But previous attention had been directed at the financial elements of his ministry at Atlanta’s New Birth Missionary Baptist Church.
Eddie Long
