Liquor Advertising: Now accepted at Radio Station
slideshows
gallery //
Marketing
Campaigns
Social Media
Print
Art
Industry
Branding
More >>
Next
Previous
Liquor Advertising: Now accepted at Radio Station
KrishNov 3 2005
New York Times reports a satellite radio station; Sirius Satellite Radio will broadcast liquor advertising. There are some big names that are not part of this annual $80-$90 million alcohol advertising budget, like ABC, CBS, Fox, WB, NBC and UPN.alcoholBarring these few it seems everybody want to have a share of the pieThis is not very astonishing that some groups always raise voice against liquor or alcohol advertising. And it has been creating a huge amount of controversy due to its alcohol related disease or life style syndrome.Remember, Becardi ad which so implicitly shown its wild partying images that an instant nationwide survey revealed high risk of illicit sexual behavior.On the other way the brains behind the campaign are happy and optimistic and believe that the unbranded and fresh music (HIP HOP, Get your ice on) will be able to deliver in not so uncluttered scenario.
You might also like
Please enable JavaScript to view the comments powered by Disqus.
Related Stories
Now electronic gaming magazine accepted blogging as mainstream stuff
Well, after New York Times and Washington Post other players are chipping in to recognize blogging community wholeheartedly. Pls don't include Forbes into the book.
An interesting write up on how the magazine has been accepted as an 'excellent news...
Liquor advertising review board needs more voices
Not enough voices are coming from liquor advertising review. Green Party Drug and Alcohol spokesperson Metiria Turei says that absence of community groups, youths and NGOs from the advertising regulations has left a wide hole in the revenue process.
It..
Radio Advertising Bureau: Hearing is believing on Radio
This is an interesting print advertisement campaign undertaken by a Radio Advertising Bureau of Finland.
The campaign is apparently showing its creative aspect in a very humorous way such as George Clooney of Finland and the most...
Advertising has it easy with gays now
The Scotsman reports that while in 1994, only 19 Fortune 500 companies advertised their brands in gay media in the United States. However, in 2005, 175 did.
Experts say IKEA started it all in 1994 when an IKEA ad aired on TV showing a gay couple...
10 worst Ads of all times
Marketing and advertisement is certainly a key player in any business. Since we have all witnessed even the most absurd or rather warped advertisement campaigns released by the biggest market players, there sure is room for a good critique! We bring you,
FEATUREDIN PAST
CONNECT WITH US
ADVERTISE WITH US
Advertise with usContact UsArchives
Adpunch© 2010 Instamedia Pvt. Ltd.All rights reserved
ON THE NEXT PAGE
Advertisements that spurred controversy and were banned
10 Tips to run your ad campaign effectively
World’s biggest advertisements: The bigger, the...
J.Lo's new Fiat
