Expires: Thu, 01 Mar 2012 17:16:52 GMT
Date: Thu, 01 Mar 2012 17:16:52 GMT
Cache-Control: private, max-age=0
Last-Modified: Wed, 29 Feb 2012 20:42:41 GMT
ETag: "6d9b8b62-f528-45ef-9a65-feb04006e77f"
X-Content-Type-Options: nosniff
X-XSS-Protection: 1; mode=block
Server: GSE
American Presidents Blog: Mittie Roosevelt
American Presidents Blog
Blog relating to the American Presidency, specific American Presidents, and First Ladies. Posts by online college instructor Jennie Weber with additional posts by site founder Dr. Michael Lorenzen and Elementaryhistoryteacher.
Thursday, May 05, 2011
Mittie Roosevelt
Well, my game must have been easy as someone got it right away! Yesterday's picture was of Mittie Roosevelt, Theodore Roosevelt's mother.Some information on Mittie:Martha, or "Mittie" as she was more commonly known, was born in Hartford
where her mother (also Martha) was visiting a step-son and escaping the blazing
summer heat of the family's early home in Savannah. Mittie was initially raised
in Savannah, but the family moved to Roswell when she was about five.
Roswell, Georgia, located about about 20 minutes north of Atlanta, was and
is the site of Bulloch Hall, the Bulloch Family estate. Mittie's southern roots,
her two brothers fought for the Confederacy during the Civil War, brought an
added dimension to the Roosevelt household. TR's father did not fight actively
in the War, although he supported the Union war effort in many other ways,
largely, it is believed out of sensitivity to his wife's relatives. Mittie,
surreptitiously sent "care packages" of medicine and supplies to the southern
effort. TR's mother, Mittie, and his first wife, Alice Lee died in the
same home, on the same day, a few hours apart. Mittie died of typhoid. This
double tragedy, 2 days after the birth of his first child, also named Alice,
affected TR greatly. At the time, TR was an Assemblyman in the State Legislature
of New York State. He returned there for a few months and then made a temporary
career and life change. Leaving his infant daughter in the capable hands of his
older sister Bamie, he headed west to Medora North Dakota and for a few years
lived his life as a rancher.
Both the impact of TR's southern roots and his experiences after the
tragedy of his mother's death, contributed to his understanding of the dynamics
of Americans
