Last-Modified: Tue, 20 Dec 2011 17:17:02 GMT
Accept-Ranges: bytes
ETag: "28827e303bbfcc1:0"
Server: Microsoft-IIS/7.0
X-Powered-By: ASP.NET
Date: Fri, 02 Mar 2012 00:32:57 GMT
Connection: close
Content-Length: 29949
Domestic Violence Resources - Fact Sheet - Feminist Majority Foundation
SIGN UP
FOR JOBS NEWS & ALERTS:
Loading
Home
Newsroom
Media Center
Feminist News
Press Releases
Reports & Fact Sheets
Videos
Blog
Events
Feminist Calendar
FMF Events
Submit Events
About Us
About FMF
FMF Board
Mission &
Principles
History
Volunteer
Intern
Contact Us
Media Inquiries
Career Center
Search Jobs & Internships
Submit Jobs & Internships
FMF Jobs & Internships
Take Action
Our Work
Abortion
Birth Control
Afghan Women & Girls
Mifepristone & Cancer Research
Campus Activism
Education
Girls Learn International
Global Women's Rights
Ms. Magazine
National Center For Women & Policing
National Clinic Access Project
Rock for Choice
Sports
Sweatshops
Violence Against Women
Women’s Health
Research Center
Feminist Book Finder
Feminist Chronicles (1953 – 1993)
Feminist Magazines
FMF Publications
Women’s History Collections
Women’s Research Centers
Hotlines
Domestic Violence Resources
Sexual Assault Resources
Sexual Harassment Resources
Shop
Donate
Print
Share
Domestic Violence Resources
National Hotlines &
Resources | State Hotlines | Fact Sheet | DOJ Violence Against Women Site
Domestic Violence Facts
Domestic violence is both a national and a worldwide crisis.
According to a 2000 UNICEF study, 20-50% of the female
population of the world will become the victims of domestic
violence.1
Within the United States, 22.1% of
women will experience violence by an intimate partner sometime
during her lifetime. According to the National Violence Against Women Survey, 17.6% of women will be raped
during her lifetime.4
"A Crime Against Women"
Although men are more likely to be victims of violent
crime overall, a recent study by the U.S. Department of
Justice reports that "intimate partner violence is primarily
a crime against women."2
Of those victimized by an intimate partner, 85% are women
and 15% are men.2 In other words, women are 5 to 8 times
more likely than men to be victimized by an intimate
partner.3
The vast majority of domestic assaults are committed by
men. Even when men are victimized, 10% are assaulted by
another man. In contrast, only 2% of women who are victimized
are assaulted by another woman.2
Vulnerability Factors
Women age 16 to 24 are most likely to be victimized by
an intimate partner.2
African-American women experience more domestic
violence than White women in the age group of 20-24. However,
Black and White women experience the same level of
victimization in all other age categories.2
Hispanic women are less likely to be victimized
than non-Hispanic women in every age group.2
Women are most vulnerable to violence when separated from their intimate partner. The second most vulnerable
group are those who are divorced.2 This can discourage women from leaving their abusive partner,
out of fear that it will increase their risk of victimization.
Physical Injury
Approximately 40-50% of female victims are physically
injured when assaulted by their intimate partner,2,
4 accounting for over 200,000 visits to the hospital
emergency room each year.5
Only about 1 in 5 of domestic violence victims with
physical injuries seek professional medical treatment.3
Murder
Women are far more likely than men to be murdered by an
intimate partner. Of those murdered by their intimate partner,
74% are women and 26% are men.2 In
other words, nearly 3 out of 4 of the murders committed
by intimate partners have a female victim.
The FBI reports that between 1976 and 1996, domestic violence
claims the lives of more than four women each day.3
Between 1976 and 1996, there was a "sharp decrease" in
the number of men murdered by intimate partners, whereas
the number of women murdered by an intimate partner remained
constant.3 Some have attributed this
to the increasing availability of shelters which provide
battered women with options other than killing an abusive
partner. It is possible that some women who might have otherwise
killed their abuser are able to leave and go to a shelter.
Under-reporting of
Domestic Violence to Police
Only about half of domestic violence incidents are reported
to police. African-American women are more likely than others
to report their victimization to police.3
The most common reasons for not reporting domestic violence
to police are that victims view the incident as a personal
or private matter, they fear retaliation from their abuser,
and they do not believe that police will do anything about
the incident.3
Even with this dramatic under-reporting, domestic violence
calls constitute approximately half of all violent crime
calls to police departments. For example, 49% of the violent
crime calls received by the DC Metropolitan Police Department
in 2000 were for domestic violence incidents.6
Police Response Frequently
Inadequate
Skepticism regarding the quality of police response is
grounded in reality. A recent study by the D.C. Metropolitan
Police Department concluded that there was a "clear and
pervasive pattern" of departures from departmental policy.6
For example, in only one-third of the domestic
violence calls did an officer take photographs or ask about
prior abuse.6
Only 17% of the victims were asked about a restraining
order, and 83% were provided no printed information with contact information or resources.6
The Myth of "Mutuality"
Although many studies report that men and women use physical
violence at equal rates within intimate relationships,7,
8 this fails to take into account the nature of the
violence and the level of fear and injury experienced by
each party.
Several studies document that women experience higher
levels of fear than men do in domestic violence situations.9,
10, 11, 12, 13 This is perhaps because women in domestic
violence situations are much more likely to be injured --
and injured severely -- than men are.8,
12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17
Recent years have seen an increase in the number of women
arrested for domestic violence. For example, the percentage
of women arrested for domestic violence increased in Concord,
New Hampshire from 23% in 1993 to 35% in 1999. Vermont saw
a similar increase from 16% in 1997 to 23% in 1999.18
Some have attributed this to the increase in "mandatory
arrest" policies, in which police are required to make an
arrest if there is probable cause that a person has committed
domestic violence. Passage of these laws was advocated by
feminists and domestic violence experts to address the inadequate
response to domestic violence victims by law enforcement.
When officers arrive at the scene of a domestic violence
crime, they often cite evidence that both partners have
engaged in some aggressive behavior, and arrest both the
man and the woman. This "dual arrest" strategy fails to
take into account which of two people is primarily responsible
for the aggression and which one is responding out of self-defense,
and can have devastating effects, particularly if there
are children involved in the relationship.
To counteract this problem, some departmental or statewide
policies now provide guidelines for an officer to determine
who is the "primary aggressor" in a violent incident. For
example, the California Commission on Peace Officer Standards
and Training publishes a guidebook for officers responding
to domestic violence, discouraging "dual arrests" and outlining
several factors to consider when determining who is the
primary aggressor in a domestic violence situation. The
primary aggressor is defined as "the person determined to
be the most significant, rather than the first, aggressor."
Factors to consider include the history of domestic violence
between the people involved, the threats and fear level
of each person, and whether either person acted in self
defense. These are appropriate considerations when determining
who is the primary aggressor, and therefore which of the
two parties should be arrested.20
Police Training Resources
For more information or to identify expert law enforcement
trainers in the area of domestic violence, please contact
the National Center for Women & Policing. We at the National
Center have compiled a list of law enforcement trainers that
we recommend, based on a review of training materials gathered
from around the country. This review was conducted with funding
provided by a grant from the Violence Against Women Office
of the US Department of Justice.
Statistics and information compiled by FMF's National
Center for Women and Policing
Footnotes
1 Sushma Kapoor (June, 2000). Domestic
Violence Against Women and Girls. UNICEF:
Innocenti Research Centre.
2 Callie Marie Rennison (2001). Intimate
Partner Violence and Age of Victim, 1993-1999. Bureau
of Justice Statistics Special Report. Washington DC: US Department of Justice. NCJ #187635. Estimates are provided
from the National Crime Victimization Survey, which defines
an intimate partner as a current or former spouse, girlfriend,
or boyfriend. Violent acts include murder, rape, sexual assault,
robbery, aggravated assault, and simple assault.
3 Lawrence A. Greenfeld et al. (1998). Violence
by Intimates: Analysis of Data on Crimes by Current or Former
Spouses, Boyfriends, and Girlfriends. Bureau of Justice
Statistics Factbook. Washington DC: US Department of Justice.
NCJ #167237. Available from National
Criminal Justice Reference Service.
4 Patricia Tjaden & Nancy Thoennes (1999). Prevalence, Incidence,
and Consequences of Violence Against Women: Findings from
the National Violence Against Women Survey. National Institute
of Justice and Centers for Disease Control, Washington, DC
(NIJ Grant #93-IJ-CX-0012). Available from the US Department of Justice's Violence Against Women Office.
5 Michael R. Rand & Kevin Strom (1997). Violence-Related
Injuries Treated in Hospital Emergency Room Departments.
Bureau of Justice Statistics Special Report. Washington DC:
US Department of Justice. NCJ #156921. Available from National
Criminal Justice Reference Service.
6 Michael Cassidy, Caroline G. Nicholl, & Carmen R. Ross
(2001). Results of a Survey Conducted by the Metropolitan
Police Department of Victims who Reported Violence Against Women. Available from the DC Metropolitan Police Department
(202-727-5029).
7 M.A. Straus (1999). The controversy over domestic violence
by women: A methodological, theoretical, and sociology of
science analysis. In X.B. Arriaga & S. Oskamp Eds.), Violence
in Intimate Relationships (p.17-44). Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage.
8 J. Archer (2000). Sex differences in aggression between
heterosexual partners: A meta-analytic review. Psychological Bulletin, Vol. 126, p.651-680.
9 O.W. Barnett, C.Y. Lee & R.E. Thelen (1997). Gender differences
in attributions of self-defense and control in interpartner
aggression. Violence Against Women, Vol. 3., p. 462-481.
10 E.B. Foa, M. Cascardi, L.A. Zoellner & NC Feeny (2000).
Psychological and environmental factors associated with partner
violence. Trauma, Violence & Abuse, Vol. 1, p. 67-91.
11 N.S. Jacobson et al. (1994). Affect, verbal content, and
psychophysiology in the arguments of couples with a violent
husband. Journal of Consulting and Clinical Psychology, Vol.
62, p. 982-988.
12 J. Langhinrichsen-Rohling, P. Nedig & G. Thorn (1995).
Violent marriages: ender differences in levels of current
violence and past abuse. Journal of Family Violence, Vol.
10, p. 159-176.
13 B.J. Morse (1995). Beyond the conflict tactics scale:
Assessing gender differences in partner violence. Violence
and Victims, Vol. 10, p. 251-272.
14 LD Brush (1990). Violence acts and injurious outcomes
in married couples: Methodological issues in the national
survey of families and households. Gender and Society, Vol.
4, p. 56-67.
15 J.M. Makepeace (1986). Gender differences in courtship
violence. Family Relations, Vol. 35, p. 383-388.
16 S.B. Sorenson, D.M. Upchurch & H. Shen (1996). Violence
and injury in marital arguments: Risk patterns of gender differences.
American Journal of Public Health, Vol. 86, p. 35-40.
17 C. Zlotnick, R. Kohn, J. Peterson & T. Pearlstein (1998).
Partner physical victimization in a national sample of American
families. Journal of Interpersonal Violence, Vol. 13, p. 156-166.
18 C. Goldberg (1999, November 23). Spouse abuse crackdown,
surprisingly, nets many women. The New York Times
