Eng Pak T1 Day 2 Stumps: Hunter Becomes Hunted; Asif Shines But Anderson Steals
slideshows
gallery //
In Focus
Players
Snapped
Match Reviews
Tests
ODIs
Twenty20
More >>
Schedule
Next
Previous
Eng Pak T1 Day 2 Stumps: Hunter Becomes Hunted; Asif Shines But Anderson Steals
-->
-->
Sreelata YellamrazuJul 30 2010
Pakistan are in serious danger of having to follow on when the play ended on the second day of the first Test of the England Pakistan Test series at Trent Bridge, Nottingham. Almost forgotten was Mohammad Asif's efforts earlier in the day to bring Pakistan back into the game.england slip fieldersPakistan did not think they would find themselves staring down the barrel after Asif ran through the England batting line up to trigger a collapse. From four down for 331, it is hard to imagine that England could find themselves pegged down, losing six wickets for next to nothing as they were dismissed for 354.If Mohammad Aamer stole the show on the first day, Asif was at his best, picking up a five-for for his dramatic show.However, it was England who went into the dressing room at the end of the second day's play looking happier after Pakistan were reduced to 147 for nine, still a shade better given that at one time, they were in deeper trouble at six down for forty-seven, James Anderson replicating Asif's efforts while Steven Finn was not to be left too far behind on three wickets.The see saw day saw Pakistan going from being spectacular to finding themselves on thin ice.England's First UDRS Helps Eoin Morgan Score a Test Century on Debut; Sachin Against Pak Eng T1 Day 1 Stumps: Colly and Debut Ton Morgan Save England with 200 Run Bond Salman Butt Says His Bowlers Are the Best: Collingwood is Not So Kind Ahead of Test series Bresnan Replaced Shahzad for First Test against Pakistan; Ankle Trouble to Blame England and Pakistan Reiterate Hope of a Scandal Free Test Series ICC Reverse Oval Decision; Pakistan Pulling their “Hair” Out!Mohammad Asif to Star in Malayalam Film! Pakistan Indicate Yousuf, Younis May Not Join Team in England for Test Series England Announce Squad for First Test against Pakistan at Trent Bridge Pak Aus T2 Day 4: Pakistan Beat Australia in Nail Biting Finish; 1st Win over Oz since '95 Pakistan Win over Australia in 15 Years! ( In Pictures) Afridi Doubts Some Pakistan Cricketers' Ability to Play Test Cricket Salman Butt for Pakistan Captain After Shahid Afridi Retires From Test Cricket...Yet Again Ricky Ponting Wants ICC to Ensure that the UDRS is Used Uniformly Across Tests Pakistan Considers Recalling Mohammad Yousuf, Younis Khan for Tests against England Match Referee Speaks to Aamer about Future ConductPak v Aus T20 2: Pak Win series 2-0England Complete Treble as Australia Bite The Dust Pakistan Unhappy With ICC Over Pitch Preparation Issues Shane Warne Reckons Steven Smith is "Special" ICC Applauds Pakistan v Australia Series as a Triumph for the Spirit of Cricket Spotted at Lord's: Imran Khan with His Sons Pakistan's Tour of England and Australia Series Schedule, Results
You might also like
Please enable JavaScript to view the comments powered by Disqus.
Related Stories
Pak Aus T1 Day 1 Stumps: Aamer, Asif Derail Australia
The day went steadily downhill for the Australian team on the first day of the first Test against Pakistan at Lord's.
Australia overcame an hour delay but failed to counter the pace and swing of Mohammad Aamer and Mohammad Asif who..
Nz Pak T1 Day 4 Stumps: Aamer-Asif Pair Once Again Bring Pak Back Into Picture
Having dismissed Pakistan for 332, New Zealand were expected to set to build on a lead. However, what turned out was Pakistan came back with a fighting chance.
Mohammad Asif and Mohammad Aamer returned with like figures from the first innings,...
NZ Pak T1 Day 2 Stumps: Vettori's 99 Bolsters New Zealand's Cause on Rain Afflicted Day
From a difficult position that could go either way, Daniel Vettori secured his team chances better even as rain played a huge role to leave an intriguing match in the making.
New Zealand recovered from the early assault from Mohammad Asif and...
Pak Aus T1 Day 2 Stumps: Pak Batsmen Disappoint, Watson Gets Five-for, Oz Get 205 Run Lead
Pakistan's young batting line up lay exposed as they failed to cash in on the tremendous job done by the bowlers. Australia were pegged back a bit, but are still in command of the first Test of the Pakistan Australia Test series at Lord's at the...
Virat Kohli And Co. Enjoy Bike Ride before Formula One Racing ( See Pics)
Is it not known that the Indian cricketers can also love demons of speed? Even as some of the Indian cricket team will fly to Noida for the first Formula One Indian Grand Prix, they did enjoy bike rides, although not on the circuit, with the keys firmly w
FEATUREDIN PAST
CONNECT WITH US
ADVERTISE WITH US
Advertise with usContact UsArchives
Crick Blog© 2010 Instamedia Pvt. Ltd.All rights reserved
ON THE NEXT PAGE
Virat Kohli And Co. Enjoy Bike Ride before Formula One...
Spotfixing Jury Remains Undecided on the Fate of Butt,...
Sachin Tendulkar, Dhoni, Yuvraj Expected at First...
Michael Clarke Warns Katich Comeback Tough after...
Indian Cricketers' Grade Contracts List Released
India's First Test Squad v WI Sees Harbhajan Singh...
Graeme Swann Gets Death Threats over ODI Series Loss...
Shahid Afridi's Last Retirement Promise
Simon Katich Alleges Michael Clarke
