081511 | College of Architecture, Planning & Design
Resources For:
Prospective Students
Current Students
Alumni
Home
| Events
| News
| About
| Academic Programs
| Contact
| Gallery
Search:
College Of Architecture, Planning & DesignBoasts Three Top 10 Programs
APDesign Newsletter 8.15.11
Words from Weigel
The Weigel Library staff is hopeful the final summer projects in Weigel
will be completed prior to the start of school. It is difficult to be
patient while waiting on entities outside the College to complete
tasks. Lance and the APDesign guys have been wonderful, catering to
our every wish, fitting our jobs into their very busy summer of
renovation and construction.
The summer hours for Weigel Library are: Monday through Friday 8 a.m. to
5 p.m. and closed weekends.
For the academic year beginning Monday, August 22, Weigel Library will be
open 77 hours per week: Monday through Thursday 8 a.m. to 10 p.m.,
Friday 8 a.m. to 5 p.m., Saturday 1 to 5 p.m. and Sunday 2 to 10 p.m.
Hours of operation are listed on the Weigel Library website:
http://www.lib.k-state.edu/branches/arch/archhours.html
Eight APDesign students have been hired to work in Weigel Library during
the fall semester to provide assistance to library patrons: Amanda
Van Scoy (ARCH), Anne Denney (LA/RCP), Caleb Melchior (LA/RCP), Emily
Kruse (IAPD), Lauren Ewald (LA/RCP), Rachel Lehr (ARCH), Victoria
Beaulieu (IAPD), and Will Woodard (LA/RCP). We are very fortunate to
have these outstanding students on our staff.
Please remember to join us for the Weigel Library Open House from 2 to 4
p.m.
Thursday, August 18, in Seaton 323.
Regnier Visiting Chair Named for 2011-12
Wendell Burnette of Wendell Burnette Architects in Phoenix, Arizona, has been
named the Regnier Visiting Chair for the 2011-12 academic year.
Burnette is a self-taught architect with an internationally recognized body of
work. His architectural practice is engaged in a wide range of
private and public projects. Burnette’s work is concerned with
space, light, context, and community. He is a native of Nashville,
Tennessee, who discovered the southwest desert as an apprentice at
Frank Lloyd Wright’s Taliesin West. His eleven-year association
with the studio of Will Bruder culminated in a six-year design
collaboration on the Phoenix Central Library. He is an assistant
professor at Arizona State University and lectures widely in the
United States and abroad. Current projects include residences located
locally and nationally, the Palo Verde Library/Maryvale Community
Center, the Phoenix Children’s Museum, the Scottsdale Teen Center,
and a hotel/spa resort in southern Utah. His design philosophy is
grounded in listening and distilling the essence of a project to
create highly specific architecture that is at once functional and
poetic. The firm’s website is:
http://www.wendellburnettearchitects.com/.
Burnette will make his first visit to campus for a lecture at 4:30 p.m.
Monday, Sept. 12 in the Leadership Studies Town Hall.
Building UpdatesIf you
are looking for Architecture Professor Magyar, Interior Architecture
& Product Design Professor Richter-O’Connell, or Landscape
Architecture/Regional & Community Planning Professor Beamish, you
need not look any further than the new suite of offices in Seaton
251. The classroom that once was housed in this space has been
relocated to Seaton 305. Seaton 251 now is filled with office
furniture and faculty from each of our three departments. Please come
visit Professor Magyar in his new “home” and welcome newly hired
tenure-track faculty — Professors Richter-O’Connell and Beamish —
to APDesign.
Additionally, the laser cutter space is being expanded. Seaton Court 106E will
continue to house the two laser cutters. Seaton Court 106D will now
be a layout area for pieces produced by the laser cutter.
The roof is finally being installed over Seaton Court 107 and the old heliodon
space in the Link. We are awaiting the arrival of the CNC router to
complete the project with new windows and siding on the east wall of
that space.
Recruitment Reminders
The annual APDesign Ambassador meeting will be at 3:30 p.m. Sunday,
August 21, in the Pierce Commons. The APDesign Ambassadors are
second- through fifth-year APDesign students. They represent APDesign
in many ways: volunteering to be mentors for first year students,
giving tours to prospective students, helping with recruitment
events, etc. APDeisgn has more than 200 Ambassadors.
All new ENVD studio and planning students have been invited to a meet their
APDesign mentors at 5 p.m. Sunday, August 21, in the Pierce Commons.
The mentor program began as a grassroots effort. Today, the group is
still a grassroots organization, but they receive logistical support
from the Dean’s Office/Student Services. Any APDesign ambassador
may volunteer to be a mentor. This program has helped with the
retention of our students by easing the nervous feelings associated
with the first day of classes. Mentors are asked to stay in contact
with their mentees throughout the fall semester. APDesign has more
than 100 mentors.
K-State
First’s Guide to Personal Success (GPS) program is seeking K-State
faculty/staff/graduate students interested in serving as a guide for
two to four first-year students during the 2011-2012 school year.
You will not necessarily be assigned to APDesign students. You can
learn more at: www.k-state.edu/gps/
The University will be hosting many events for new students during the
K-State Week of Welcome. APDesign will host a donut breakfast outside
the Chang Gallery from 8 to 9:30 a.m. on the first day of classes. To
learn more about other Week of Welcome events, please visit:
http://wow.k-state.edu.
Professor Seamon Organizes Symposium
Architecture Professor David Seamon attended the 30th annual International
Human Science Research Conference, held in Oxford, England, July
27-30, 2011. He organized a symposium, “Lived Relationalities among Place,
Space, and Environmental Embodiment.” The three symposium
presenters were health sociologist Andrew Moore, a research
associate with the Arthritis Research UK Primary Care Centre at Keele University in Staffordshire, England; Urban historian Sam
Griffiths, a lecturer in urban morphology and theory at University College London’s Bartlett School of Architecture; and Seamon, whose
presentation was titled, “‘Seeing’ Merleau-Ponty’s
Perception: Possibilities in the Urban Photographs of New York City
Photographer Saul Leiter.”
From the Provost: New Faculty Awards Website
As the fall 2011 semester is just around the corner, I wanted to take
this time to introduce a new initiative of the Office of the Provost.
One of the metrics of our vision of K-State 2025 concerns the number
of faculty members who receive national awards. In the past years,
K-State has had very few faculty members receive such awards. Part of
the problem is that very few faculty members have been nominated or
have applied for these awards. We believe we have many outstanding
scholars at K-State, and such awards are only possible if we nominate
them.
My office has put together a website
— http://www.k-state.edu/provost/resources/natlawards.htm —
that lists all of these prestigious national awards, providing a
description, eligible areas and faculty ranks, and the award website
for more information on their application process. The awards are
listed chronologically by their application deadlines.   We
wanted to make this information available early enough so that
faculty, department heads, and deans can have adequate time to
prepare nominations and applications. We hope that this information
will generate the interest necessary so that our top scholars from
across the university will be considered for and eventually receive
these prestigious awards.
It should be noted that the awards are not only for longtime scholars.
They vary in terms of content areas (e.g., humanities, sciences, art,
or biomedicine) as well as nominee rank (full professor, mid-career
professor, early career scholar, or post-doctoral). Therefore, please
pay close attention to the eligibility for the awards.   I
urge each of you to examine the complete list of awards and
deadlines, consider possible nominees in your area, and make every
effort possible to forward their names in nomination. My office will
provide as much support as we can, and will be happy to write letters
of support as needed.
Thank you for your assistance in this important initiative.
Monsters of Design Competition
Are you a monster? It is time to find out! Register now for the
2011 Monsters of Design (MoD) competition.
Remember
MoD is open to ALL design not just architecture and the rules are
simple:
Entrants
can be students or professionals under age 40 as of the end of 2011.
Entrants
must reside and work within 250 miles of Kansas City.
Entrants
may submit work done independently in a group, as a student,
employee, or educator.
For complete details and to register go to:
http://www.aiakc.org/mod/index2011/.
You can also follow our blog,
which has past winning projects and will soon have the awards party
details at http://monstersofdesign.com/.
We need your help to find all those awesome projects out there done by
young talented designers!  Maybe it is one of your own or that
brilliant idea your colleague had that was rejected by the client.
Either way, we want it! You can help by, first and foremost,
entering your own brilliant projects but also encourage friends and
co-workers. Send out a personal encouragement, post a link or
your Facebook wall, or slap the call for entries sheet on someone’s
desk.  We don’t care how you promote the competition we just
want everyone to know how cool they can be walking away with an MoD
trophy this fall!
Computer and Networking Notes
Bentley applications have been installed in the College’s computing lab for
your use.
To view the full list of products available, visit
http://www.bentley.com/en-US/Products/.
Faculty
and students can download Bentley products onto their office, studio,
and/or lab workstations using the Bentley STUDENTserver located
at http://www.bentley.com/studentserver.
The website may ask for a current school code which can be found at
this website: http://capd.ksu.edu/restricted/bentley.html.
The website is only accessible when your computer is connected to the
Seaton network.
Congratulations to the Department of ArchitectureThe
Department of Architecture’s Master of Architecture program
recently was granted a full six-year accreditation by the National Architectural Accrediting Board (NAAB). The next accreditation visit
is scheduled for 2017.Congratulations Department of
Architecture on this achievement!
Email Signatures
Many of the faculty and staff have already updated their email signatures,
however if you have not, or if you have questions, please read on.
The email signature guidelines can be found by scrolling down to the last page
of this PDF: http://www.newapd.com/style-brand-guide.pdf.
To avoid the email signature showing up as an attachment, an email signature
generator has been created for your use. If you would like to create
your signature with the signature generator, you can find it
at: http://www.newapd.com/email/email.php.
Upcoming Events — From Emily Vietti
The beginning of the semester is always a busy time, and this year is no
exception. A few events to be aware of:
3
p.m. Friday, August 19: Farewell party for Development Director
Bruce Broce in the Pierce Commons
8
a.m.-9:30 a.m. Monday, August 22: Week of Welcome breakfast
sponsored by APDesign. Stop by for donuts on your way to your first
class of the new semester!
3:30
p.m. Monday, August 22: All-College Forum at Forum Hall in the
K-State Student Union
