Fixing America's Health Care Crisis
Fixing America's Health Care Crisis
By XAVIER MARTINEZ
Washington, D.C.
Most experts agree that the United States has set the standard for health
care innovation. Thousands of people from around the world travel to the
US each year for medical treatment not found anywhere else. But many analysts
say America's health care policy needs drastic reform.
Will patients, doctors, insurance companies and the government see eye-to-eye
on health care reform?
The US government offers free health insurance coverage to some 27 percent
of the population. For the elderly and many disabled Americans, the federal
Medicare program covers about 80 percent of medical costs. Medicaid programs
help insure the nations poor. And the State Children's Health Insurance Program
covers about six million low income children whose families are ineligible
for Medicaid but cannot afford private health insurance. The rest of the
population must find health care coverage on their own, typically through
employers.
But many Americans have to bear the full cost of health insurance. For an
average family, that ranges from 11 thousand to 12 thousand dollars a year.
And even that does not cover the full cost of medical care. Millions of Americans
often have trouble paying for prescription drugs and other treatments.
"Here is a country with a very expensive and very vast health care
system that leaves many out of being able to participate fully in the abundance
of the American health care system," says Diane Rowland, the Executive
Vice President of the Kaiser Family Foundation, a non-profit organization
that focuses on health policy in the United States. "We need an America
to reinvest in our people and reinvest in providing primary and preventive
health care services equitably to all Americans."
Why Many are Uninsured
According to the US Census Bureau, about 47 million
Americans do not have health insurance. Joel Cohen is Director of Social
and Economic Research for the US government's Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality. "There
are a lot of different reasons why people are uninsured -- some of which
have to do with what they perceive to be the affordability, some of which
have to do with their access to different kinds of health plans, and some
of it has to do with their individual preferences as to how they view health
insurance and medical care."
Cohen says many people between the ages of 19 and 29
believe they are healthy and do not need costly medical insurance. Overall,
he says, insurance coverage varies with the fluctuating economy. "Most
people get their insurance through their employment. So as unemployment
increases, then people would have more difficulty getting insurance. On
the other hand, if the economy improves and more people are employed, then
it would go down. So there is a little bit of an economic cycle to that."
Radical Reform
About 60 percent of Americans receive health insurance through their workplace.
Employers typically offer workers insurance plans that cover a portion of
health care costs, leaving employees responsible for the difference. With
nearly 16 percent of Americans uninsured, some analysts say federally-funded
health care coverage for all Americans is the answer.
"We are the only industrialized country without universal health insurance
coverage," says Sara Collins, Assistant Vice President for the Commonwealth Fund, a private foundation that provides support for health care research. "You
notice when you look at our rate of cost growth compared to France, compared
to Germany, compared to Canada, we have a much higher rate of cost growth.
We spend a much larger percentage of our GDP [i.e., gross domestic product]
on health care costs than do other countries where everybody is in the same
system. And we actually have much poorer health outcomes; we rank among the
very bottom in infant mortality compared to our neighbors overseas [in developed
countries]. I think that the health system would improve dramatically by
including everybody in the system as other industrialized countries are doing
now."
Many people equate universal health insurance with socialized medicine.
But analysts say socialized medicine is government control over all aspects
of health care, while the government would administer only insurance programs
under a universal health insurance system. Critics of universal coverage
point out that patients in Canada and Britain, for example, often encounter
long waits for medical care and have little choice in selecting doctors.
Fixing the Current System
Scott Serota is President and CEO of the BlueCross BlueShield Association,
the largest group of private health insurance franchises in the US He admits
the current system needs reform, but he says he is wary of a system that
might not sustain America's standard of health care.
"My biggest comment to the critics of the current financing system
is it has created a health care system second to none in the world. And we
need to ensure we continue to support that system while modifying the incentives
in such a fashion that we can continue to afford that system," says
Serota. "I think we need to move away from a finger pointing exercise
and toward a solution-oriented exercise, which says these are the problems
and this is how we need to fix them."
According to Serota, the insurance industry supports reforms that focus
on disease prevention, chronic illness management and health information
technology. But, he says, the industry does not support reforms that would
increase government bureaucracy in order to manage the nation's health care
industry. Several public opinion polls show that rising health care costs
are the number one domestic concern among US voters ahead of next year's
national elections.
Political Positions
Diane Rowland of the Kaiser Family Foundation says the
two major political parties already are beginning to map out their positions. "Among
the Democratic candidates, there's been a lot of discussion of how to improve
health care services, how to improve the quality of care for everyone, how
to try to bring down the inefficiencies in the system, so that we can have
more affordable health care services, and clearly providing for some way
to help assist those who are lower income and need coverage. On the Republican
side, we've seen much more of a commitment to some of the market-based strategies,
increasing the availability of tax credits for the purchase of health insurance
and greater reliance actually on the individual market, on the private market,
for health care coverage where there's more consumer choice."
Presidential candidates from both major parties agree that reform is needed.
Meanwhile, most analysts predict that under the current system, the number
of uninsured people in the US
