Pro-life picket of abortionist José Raul Quintana's residence - 11/12/2011 — The Forerunner Weblog
Menu
Store
YouTube
Blog
Forum
What's New
Jay's Bio
About Us
Donate
Feedback
Search
Home
International Director: Jay Rogers
Feed for this Blog
Forerunner Weblog
Blog Archive
The Forerunner
The Real Jesus
Boston Awakening
Campus Ministry
Current Events
Education
End of Crime
Eschatology
Forerunner News
Forerunner TV
God's Law & Society
Ministry Ideas
Missions
Politics
Pro-life Activism
The Real Jesus
Revival
Science
Theology
Home-Schooled Student Faces Death Threats from Homosexual Activists
Postmillennialism: Clearing Up Misunderstandings
Five World Changing DVDs
39 Years After Roe - Will we rise up and stop the bloodshed?
Orlando Abortion Center Worker Quits - Salvation Testimony
Election 2012: What Will You Do?
Sonny Bono: More Conservative than Gingrich or Santorum
Pro-life Issues: Direct Action vs. Indirect Action
Fire-bombed Pensacola abortion mill linked to abortionist charged with murder
Postmillennialism Reconsidered
Pro-life picket of abortionist José Raul Quintana's residence - 11/12/2011
By Jay Rogers. Posted November 15, 2011.
“And have nothing to do with the unfruitful deeds of darkness, but rather expose them” (Ephesians 5:11).
TAMPA, FL (FR) – Abortionist José Raul Quintana works for
Gary Dresden’s
All Women’s
Health Center abortion chain. On November 12, 2011 a dozen sidewalk evangelists conducted a neighborhood awareness campaign at Quintana’s residence.
The campaign began in the parking lot of St Paul’s Catholic Church at 2 pm and lasted until 4. About 12 street evangelists from Orlando, Riverview, New Port Richey, Cleawarer and Tampa first marched through the Quintana neighborhood and then stood at the intersection of the street as hundreds of people drove by to attend a wedding mass across the street. One awareness campaign participant passed out flyers to passers-by.
At about 2:30 pm, the neighbors across the street returned to their home and began to confront the street evangelists claiming that the signs depicting graphic representations of aborted children were offensive. José Quintana was not present during the campaign. At several points, the Quintana family and some teenage boys who are friends of the Quintanas began to angrily confront the street evangelists saying that the demonstrators had no right to be in a “restricted neighborhood.”
The police were called and immediately explained that they were acting as peace officers and not taking sides. They also explained to all involved that it is the right of Americans to assemble and speak in a public right of way.
As Deanna Waller messaged from the event, “Today we were spit at, cursed at, kicked at, called names, had mulch thrown on us and sprinklers turned on us for Jesus … All in a day’s work! Wonder what tomorrow will bring?”
See more information on abortionist José Raul Quintana including disciplinary actions taken against him by the Florida Department of Health and the Ohio State Medical Board.
«- The Media's Cain Mutiny
-» A Cuban Thanksgiving Story
Current Events and Issues
Pro-life Activism
The Forerunner Weblog
-»
Blog Archive
Your comments are welcome!
Name
Remember
E-mail
Website
Message
Textile Help
Reversing Roe: The Norma McCorvey Story (DVD)
In 1969, a pregnant 21 year old Norma McCorvey felt abortion was her only answer. He case was used to challenge the Texas abortion law and she eventually became the Jane Roe of the 1973 US Supreme Court decision, Roe v Wade. She never had an abortion, but instead became an icon in the national abortion debate. For 22 years, Norma McCorvey’s life was a battlefield. She worked inside abortion clinics. She promoted legalized abortion. But she was tormented by what she saw and felt. In the summer of 1995, her life changed forever.
Through the friendship of a pro-life leader and a special invitation from a 7-year old child, Jane Roe finally died so Norma Leah McCorvey could live. This is her story.
Running Time: 28 minutes
Watch a clip from Reversing Roe.
$19.95 — ORDER NOW!
(We accept all major credit cards and PayPal.)
Click here for more information
The Real Jesus: A Defense of the Historicity and Divinity of Christ (DVD)
Who is the Real Jesus?
Ever since the dawn of modern rationalism, skeptics have sought to use textual criticism, archeology and historical reconstructions to uncover the “historical Jesus” — a wise teacher who said many wonderful things, but fulfilled no prophecies, performed no miracles and certainly did not rise from the dead in triumph over sin.
Over the past 100 years, however, startling discoveries in biblical archeology and scholarship have all but vanquished the faulty assumptions of these doubting modernists. Regrettably, these discoveries have often been ignored by the skeptics as well as by the popular media. As a result, the liberal view still holds sway in universities and impacts the culture and even much of the church.
The Real Jesus explodes the myths of these critics and the movies, books and television programs that have popularized their views. Presented in ten parts — perfect for individual, family and classroom study — viewers will be challenged to go deeper in their knowledge of Christ in order to be able to defend their faith and present the truth to a skeptical modern world – that the Jesus of the Gospels is the Jesus of history — “the same yesterday, today and forever” (Hebrews 13:8).
He is the real Jesus.
Speakers include: George Grant, Ted Baehr, Stephen Mansfield, Raymond Ortlund, Phil Kayser, David Lutzweiler, Jay Grimstead, J.P. Holding, and Eric Holmberg.
Ten parts, over two hours of instruction!
Running Time: 130 minutes
$19.95 — ORDER NOW!
(We accept all major credit cards and PayPal.)
Click here for more information
Abortion Clinic 911 Calls (DVD)
Exposes the Dangers of Abortion to Women!
These shocking eyewitness accounts expose the dangers of abortion not only to unborn children, but to the health and lives women as well. An antidote to the smokescreens of the liberal media, these six short clips show what really happens in and around abortion clinics.
Although the content is emotionally gut-wrenching, these videos have been used in church seminars and small groups to educate Christians on the abortion issue and to lead people toward a pro-life position.
Watch these pro-life videos on-line.
“These videos helped change my mind from pro-choice to pro-life. Your
videos are what did it for me. I will be walking in next year’s March For Life in San Francisco.” — A. Jackson, California
“I was going to have an abortion until I saw your video. Praise Jesus!”
— M. Drew, YouTube Commenter
$4.95 — ORDER NOW!
(We accept all major credit cards and PayPal.)
Click here for more information
The Abortion Matrix: Defeating Child Sacrifice and the Culture of Death (DVD)
Download the free Study Guide!
Is there a connection between pagan religion and the abortion industry?
This powerful presentation traces the biblical roots of child sacrifice and then delves into the social, political and cultural fall-out that this sin against God and crime against humanity has produced in our beleaguered society.
Conceived as a sequel and update to the 1988 classic, The Massacre of Innocence, the new title, The Abortion Matrix, is entirely fitting. It not only references abortion’s specific target – the sacred matrix where human beings are formed in the womb in the very image of God, but it also implies the existence of a conspiracy, a matrix of seemingly disparate forces that are driving this holocaust.
The occult activity surrounding the abortion industry is exposed with numerous examples. But are these just aberrations, bizarre yet anomalous examples of abortionists who just happen to have ties to
modern day witchcraft? Or is this representative of something deeper, more sinister and even endemic to the entire abortion movement?
As the allusion to the film of over a decade ago suggests, the viewer may learn that things are not always as they appear to be. The Abortion Matrix reveals the reality of child-killing and strikes the proper moral chord to move hearts to fulfill the biblical responsibility to rescue those unjustly sentenced to death and to speak for those who cannot speak for themselves (Proverbs 24:11,12; 31:8,9).
Speakers include: George Grant, Peter Hammond, RC Sproul Jr., Paul Jehle, Lou Engle, Rusty Thomas, Flip Benham, Janet Porter and many more.
Ten parts, over three hours of instruction!
Running Time: 195 minutes
$19.95 — ORDER NOW!
(We accept all major credit cards and PayPal.)
Click here for more information
Go Stand Speak (DVD)
With “preaching to the lost” being such a basic foundation of Christianity, why do many in the church seem to be apathetic on this issue of preaching in highways and byways of towns and cities?
Is it biblical to stand in the public places of the world and proclaim the gospel, regardless if people want to hear it or not?
Does the Bible really call church pastors, leaders and evangelists to proclaim the gospel in the public square as part of obedience to the Great Commission, or is public preaching something that is outdated and not applicable for our day and age?
These any many other questions are answered in this documentary.
$19.95 — ORDER NOW!
(We accept all major credit cards and PayPal.)
Click here for more information
Share
|
View CCNow Cart/Checkout
Use an RSS Feed Reader?
Subscribe to
The Forerunner
Have The Forerunner Weblog sent straight to your inbox!
Enter your email address:
The Forerunner
Channel on YouTube
Featured Product
If you like the articles on this website, you may also be interested in:
Featured Articles
The Abortion Matrix DVD: Update
The Abortion Matrix:
Defeating Child Sacrifice and the Culture of Death is a 195-minute presentation that traces the biblical roots of child sacrifice and then delves into the social, political and cultural fall-out that this sin against God has produced. You can order this series on DVD
