    Primary Navigation Secondary Navigation Search: Iraq's FM: 'Bold' decisions needed on bases deal By KIM GAMEL, Associated Press Writer Tue Oct 7, 5:39 AM ET BAGHDAD - The U.S. and Iraq are close to a deal to keep U.S. troops in this country next year but it will take "bold political decisions" to overcome the final hurdles, Iraq's foreign minister said Tuesday. Foreign Minister Hoshyar Zebari made his comments to reporters at a joint press conference with U.S. Deputy Secretary of State John Negroponte . Zebari said the two sides were "very close" to an agreement to replace the U.N. mandate that expires this year. But he added that "I don't want to give you any false hope," citing the longtime sticking-point issue of legal immunity for U.S. troops under Iraqi law. "This issue needs, I think, some bold political decisions. And we are at that stage," he said, adding that he expected "hectic political meetings here in Baghdad on this issue to determine the fate of the agreement." Shortly before the press conference began in the Green Zone , two explosions occurred in front of the Foreign Ministry, which is outside the U.S.-protected area. At least five Iraqis were injured. U.S. and Iraqi negotiators have been working for months to hammer out an agreement to govern the operations of American troops in this country. Iraqi officials say the deal calls for U.S troops to leave the country by the end of 2011 unless the Baghdad government asks them to stay. But immunity has emerged as a major stumbling block . The Iraqis want legal jurisdiction over American soldiers as an affirmation of sovereignty. The agreement must be approved by parliament, and Iraqi officials fear opposition unless the deal satisfies Iraqi nationalists. Zebari said the U.S. had submitted new "reasonable" proposals on immunity but stressed that the Iraqi government had taken no final decision . Negroponte refused to discuss specifics of the talks, saying only that "both countries are pursuing this issue from the point of view of their own national self-interest." The Iraqi government is under strong pressure from neighboring Iran not to enter into a security agreement with the United States. On Tuesday, Gen. Masoud Jazayeri, deputy chief of staff of the Iranian armed forces, said in a statement that the agreement would be a "disgrace" for the Iraqis. Iran opposes the security talks, saying the presence of American forces in Iraq causes regional instability. RECOMMEND THIS STORY Recommend It: Average ( Not Rated ) Off the Wires AP, 2 minutes ago AFP, 40 minutes ago Feature Articles AP via Yahoo! News, Sep 12 McClatchy Newspapers via Yahoo! News, Sep 10 News Stories The Christian Science Monitor via Yahoo! News, Sep 23 at BBC, Sep 09 Opinion & Editorials at MSNBC, Sep 09 at The New York Times, Sep 09 AP AP AP AP AP AP AP AP AP AP Reuters - 52 minutes ago BBC - 1 hour, 13 minutes ago BBC - 2 hours, 6 minutes ago BBC - 2 hours, 41 minutes ago News Video Iraqi soldiers secure an area in the restive city of Baquba, northeast of Baghdad. A... Slideshow: News Search Related Searches: McClatchy News Blog Elsewhere on the Web Time.com: McClatchy Newspapers: ABC News: Yahoo! Autos See the latest Land Rover vehicles on Yahoo! Autos. Add headlines to your personalized My Yahoo! page Middle East News - AP Iraq NEWS ALERTS Get an alert when there are new stories about: Iraq The Iraqis Green Zone major stumbling block Iraqis - - Search: Primary Navigation Copyright © 2008 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. The information contained in the AP News report may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed without the prior written authority of The Associated Press. 