    Text In gender-sensitive Iran, a car designed specially for women and Noushin Hoseiny , Tuesday October 7 2008 's biggest motor manufacturer is to take the country's gender sensitivity to new levels by producing a car specially for women. It will be fitted with features common on the international market but seen as female-specific in Iran's male-dominated culture. These include an automatic gearbox, electronic parking aids, a navigation system and a jack designed to make it easier to change a wheel, suggesting that women drivers lack the mechanical competence of their male counterparts. Alarms may also be installed to warn of flat tyres. The vehicle will be painted in soft "feminine" colours and include interior designs tailored to women's tastes. There will also be audiovisual entertainment systems for child passengers. Iran Khodro, the state-backed manufacturer, said it would put the first models on sale next June to coincide with Iranian women's day. The car will be part of the Samand range, which has been exported to allied countries such as Syria and Venezuela. However, the women's car will initially be aimed solely at the Iranian domestic market. Vahid Najafi, managing director of Iran Khodro's order unit, said the design was prompted by a sharp increase in women drivers and car owners and was based on research into their preferences and needs. Cars will be built in response to orders from customers. "Women's necessities are different from men's," Najafi said. "For example, a woman goes shopping, takes children to school - so this car is going to have some visual distinctions that will separate it from other cars. It will be more beautiful. Cheerful and attractive colours will be used - for example red. A series of decoration pieces will be added to the interior, on the dashboard for example. What's important for women is that the car should be comfortable and handle well." The idea is in line with gender separation officially encouraged by Iran's Islamic authorities. Last year they backed a proposal for a female bicycle designed to conceal the rider's legs and upper body. Women are discouraged from cycling, mainly to preserve notions of female modesty, and are banned from riding motorcycles, except as passengers. A women-only taxi service, with women drivers, was recently launched in Tehran and other big cities. Men and women are segregated in buses and on Tehran's underground. Iran Khodro last year announced plans for an Islamic car - with a navigation system designed to locate Mecca - to be produced jointly with Malaysia and Turkey. | Email Your IP address will be logged Share Contact us Report errors or inaccuracies: Letters for publication should be sent to: If you need help using the site: Call the main Guardian and Observer switchboard: +44 (0)20 7278 2332 · Email Your IP address will be logged Share Contact us Report errors or inaccuracies: Letters for publication should be sent to: If you need help using the site: Call the main Guardian and Observer switchboard: +44 (0)20 7278 2332 About this article In gender-sensitive Iran, a car designed specially for women This article appeared in on on p18 of the section. It was last updated at 10:34 on October 07 2008. Bestsellers from the Guardian shop Enjoy crystal clear sound without noise interference over a range of 300m. From: £49.99 Find a car New vehicle search Used vehicle search Your details: Postcode Required Sellers details: Sort results by: Latest news on guardian.co.uk Last updated less than one minute ago Free P&P at the Guardian bookshop £20.00 with free UK delivery £20.00 with free UK delivery Sponsored features UK reilly people. senior research executive is required for this maj…. £Neg. british postal museum & archive. central london. £24-28k. institute of education. central london. Salary pro-rata in the range of £23,577 to £28,152, plus £2,323 London Allowance per annum. USA known for its cajun heritage and tradition. every... gras. with a popular cultural center a performing arts center which is listed on the national register of... . la. rich in heritage, quaint towns and pristine beauty... enjoy year-round recreational sports, history, the arts, shopping, hiking, fishing and a host of other... . sc. proud of its strong heritage, its strong work ethic... orchestra, pasquerilla performing arts center, community arts center, allegheny highlands regional theatre... . pa. Related information · Sep 25 2008: Emine Saner tests a rape alarm designed to sound like a woman's scream. But will anyone come to her rescue? Oct 7 2008 Sep 4 2008 Sep 26 2007 Jul 19 2007 Oct 12 2007: A sneak peek at some of the exhibits and concept cars from this year's Tokyo Motor Show, which opens on October 27. | | | | | | | | guardian.co.uk © Guardian News and Media Limited 2008 