    | | | | | | SEARCH: Latest Posts Categories ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) Favorite Links Archived Posts Mobile funds Gulf Coast Classic football game after debate Posted by October 07, 2008 5:38 PM Categories: , MOBILE, Ala. -- The Mobile City Council this morning voted to increase funding for the Gulf Coast Classic, but not before debate over the issue broke down into promises of retaliatory votes and accusations of racial prejudice. The council voted 5-2 to give $275,000 to the organization that runs the Classic, an increase of nearly 600 percent from the $40,000 the city spent on the game last year. Council members Fred Richardson, William Carroll, Clinton Johnson, John Williams and Gina Gregory voted in favor of the appropriation, while Reggie Copeland and Connie Hudson voted against it. The extra money is going to make the game an annual event between and . For the past 34 years, the Classic had been merely an Alabama State home game against any one of several opponents. (For a complete report, see Wednesday's Press-Register.) Tags: , , , , | | Share: | | | | | | COMMENTS (3) Posted by EarnestT on yikes gadzooks and all that stuff i shore hope this game werks and we dont loose our arses Inappropriate? Posted by cheerio67 on Seems like such a waste of taxpayer dollars. Doesn't the school system need help, again, after we raised our property taxes to give them more money and that's still not enough? Also I am offended as a white resident when the mayor says it is historically a black game??? so if there was a historically white event, would that be noted or considered racist? It definitely would not be funded by taxpayer dollars that I can be sure of. A sad state of affairs Mobile has become . Inappropriate? Posted by orionmobile on This is a ridiculous waste of money. Throwing money at this game will not bring more tourism or revenue into the city. As a previous poster stated, it would never happen if it were billed as a historically white game. This is racism at its finest, engineered by sam and his racist-agenda buddies. It's a shame the city council was either too stupid or too cowardly to go along with it. Thanks to those who stood up to this complete waste of taxpayers dollars. Sports should support themselves, not rely on tax dollars. Inappropriate? Welcome back, ! From Our Advertisers Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our . Please read our . apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. . © . All Rights Reserved. | 