    Primary Navigation Secondary Navigation Search: Tough time in paradise for veteran Asian ruler by Stefan Smith Mon Oct 6, 1:49 AM ET MALE (AFP) - The tourist paradise of the Maldives gets its first taste of democracy this week with presidential elections that could see the end of the road for Asia's longest-serving leader. The polls will be the first time incumbent President Maumoon Abdul Gayoom , aged 71 and in power for 30 years, has allowed more than just a one-horse race for the top job on the Indian ocean archipelago. He is facing five challengers on Wednesday, including bitter opponents who have for years campaigned for multi-party polls and greater freedoms in the otherwise idyllic island nation of 300,000 Muslims. The polls are the climax of reforms implemented by Gayoom after dissenting islanders took to the streets in 2004 and again in 2005. The campaign has been hard fought, with noisy late-night rallies in the cramped island capital of Male, and candidates using sea planes to shuttle between some of the 1,192 white sand and palm tree islands that make up the top honeymoon destination. Gayoom has also been island-hopping, although security around him is tight. In January, one islander tried to stab him, but the assassination attempt was foiled by a young boy scout who wrestled the attacker. Seen as Gayoom's main rival is Maldivian Democratic Party (MDP) founder Mohamed 'Anni' Nasheed -- one of the president's fiercest critics and a former Amnesty International prisoner of conscience. Anni has accused Gayoom of dirty tricks -- such as claiming the MDP wants to convert everyone to Christianity -- and worsening intimidation as the campaign enters its final stretch. Opposition supporters insist Gayoom's time is up, and around the capital many people say he is out of touch with issues beneath the Maldives image as a getaway for the rich and famous -- such as drugs, a bored youth and corruption. The country suffered its first ever terror attack a year ago, with Islamic militants blamed for bombing a park and wounding a dozen tourists. "We've been under a dictatorship for 30 years. You couldn't talk about politics without being jailed," said 37-year-old housewife Razana as she joined an opposition parade in the narrow streets of Male. Previously, it was illegal for anyone to even suggest being president. A candidate had to be selected by the 50-member majlis, or national parliament, before securing the invariable "yes" vote at a referendum. "There are big problems here: overcrowding, drugs, lack of jobs. The politicians have been filling their pockets for too long, so people want somebody new," Razana said. On the neighbouring island of Villingili, 25-year-old shopkeeper Hussain Omar underscored another concern -- that Gayoom may not bow out gracefully. "He's been president for so long, so I'm sure he'll manage to win one way or another. It's not as if he's a real democrat, he's just going through the motions," he said, adding he would not even bother voting. According to the website, the most recent NGO opinion poll shows Gayoom and Anni in the lead but neck-and-neck, with neither likely to score the more than 50 percent needed for a first round win. This would send them into a run-off to be held within 10 days. Gayoom's spokesman said that while pollsters are finding split loyalties in Male, the president could rely on strong support from the more conservative outlying atolls that account for over half the 208,000-strong electorate. At a campaign rally late Sunday, Gayoom argued he was the safest pair of hands for the low-lying islands -- where any upheaval could spell disaster for the tourism sector, the mainstay of the economy. He can also boast that he has helped make the country South Asia's richest economy, championed the cause of fighting climate change on the world stage and -- albeit after 30 years on top -- delivered sweeping democratic reforms. "If you want a leader who will protect these freedoms, our religion and our culture, then vote for me," he told supporters, promising "five more dynamic years." RECOMMEND THIS STORY Recommend It: Average ( Not Rated ) AP AP AP AP AP AP AP AP The Christian Science Monitor AP Reuters - 26 minutes ago Australia 7 News - 50 minutes ago AFP - 1 hour, 4 minutes ago Reuters - 1 hour, 32 minutes ago Sponsored Links ( ) Liveaboard cruises to suit all budgets, lowest prices guaranteed. www.dive-the-world.com Undercurrent since 1975: critical ad-free reviews of Maldives. www.undercurrent.org We know where to go. Experience Maldives with a personal guide. iExplore.com/maldives News Video Maldivian President Maumoon Abdul Gayoom. The tourist paradise of the Maldives gets its first taste... News Search Related Searches: Elsewhere on the Web Time.com: McClatchy Newspapers: ABC News: Yahoo! Autos See the latest Land Rover vehicles on Yahoo! Autos. NEWS ALERTS Get an alert when there are new stories about: Maumoon Abdul Gayoom presidential elections Maldivian Democratic Party white sand - - Search: Primary Navigation Copyright © 2008 . All rights reserved. The information contained in the AFP News report may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed without the prior written authority of Agence France Presse. 