      by: Landon Cassill Oct 07, 2008 | 12:42PM | After four long four days in Talladega, Im back home in Charlotte getting ready for a busy week here in town. My weekend at Talladega went pretty well. The ARCA Series race on Friday didnt go the way I would have liked it to. However, the next day went better in the Craftsman Truck Series race, and we were able to represent the National Guard well with a top-10 finish. We really laid back all day and sort of let the race play out on its own. We put ourselves in great position after the final pit stop by being behind Kyle Busch, but when the No. 5 truck hit us on pit road it sort of put a spin on our strategy. I had to go from the back to the front through the middle with little to no drafting help, but we were able to pull it off and come up with a sixth-place finish. It feels great to get another top-10 finish for Randy Moss Motorsports. I definitely learned some things about drafting and just am really proud of this No. 81 National Guard/Randy Moss Motorsports team. I cant thank them enough for putting me in their Chevy Silverado. It was a lot of fun. In general, I think patience was a huge thing that I learned racing at a superspeedway. You can't win the race on the first lap, but you can definitely lose it. Even though the ARCA cars are a lot different than the trucks at Talladega, there are still simple drafting techniques that apply as well. I returned home late Saturday night, and on Sunday I stayed at home and watched the Sprint Cup Series race, and kept up with the football scores for my fantasy team. This week, I was matched up against Bryan Clauson, and fortunately, I came out on top! The guys came over on Monday night to watch football and play cards, and hopefully Bryan can quickly recover from his loss in the fantasy football league, haha. I havent answered fan questions in a while, so please send me some more e-mails and comments and Ill get back to answering them over the next few weeks. My e-mail address is . This weeks playlist is Underoaths new CD titled Lost in the Sound of Separation. Ive always been a huge Underoath fan, so its great to hear their new album its now available on iTunes. ChelseaD wrote: How is your fantasy football thing going with Bryan Clauson? LC: As I wrote above, I beat Bryan this week, but I havent been too specific on the current rankings. I am currently ranked No. 1 with a 4-1 record, and Bryan is ranked No. 6 with a 2-3 record. This week, I am matched up against No. 2 ranked David Smith from . His record is also 4-1. Nawlinz wrote: I have an unhealthy crush on your truck paint scheme. That thing is awesome. LC: Thanks! My friend, Will, designs our paint schemes over at Randy Moss Motorsports and does a great job with them as well. I was very happy with the look of the No. 81 National Guard Chevy this past weekend and hopefully we can do many more like that. Have a great week! Cheers, Landon P.S. I'll be signing autographs at JR Motorsports in Mooresville, N.C. this Friday from 11-11:45 a.m. local time, so for those who will be in town, please be sure to stop by. Also, I'll be joined by my teamm ate Brad Keselowski and Dale Jr. this upcoming Monday, Oct. 13 for the Dale Jr. Celebrity Sports Auction at the Embassy Suites in Concord, N.C. Proceeds from the event will benefit The Dale Jr. Foundation, Make-A-Wish and Victory Junction Gang Camp. There also will be a charity concert, featuring country artist Gary Allan and a special appearance by Kyle Petty, at Whisky River in Charlotte on Oct. 12. If interested in attending, please visit for more information. | categories: , , , , , « total comments: 3 Page 1 of 1 Hey Landon, It sounds like u had a lot of fun this weekend...Can't wait to see you Driving the no.5 again...Have a great week! Hey Landon - Great truck race. As for the great weekend coming up for Dale Jr. and JR Motorsports, I wish I lived closer because I would be there! I hope the foundation raises a lot of money for those charities. I also am looking forward to you back in the 5 car. congrats on getting a top ten landon. it's not easy to do in any nascar series. keep up the good work and you'll be celebrating in victory lane soon Page 1 of 1 ABOUT ME Landon Cassill, a native of Cedar Rapids, Iowa, is an up-and-coming NASCAR driver, who made his Nationwide Series debut for Hendrick Motorsports in July 2007. This season, Landon is driving the No. 5 National Guard Chevrolet for JR Motorsports. He shares driving responsibilit ies in the No. 5 Chevy with Dale Earnhardt Jr., Mark Martin, Jimmie Johnson, Martin Truex Jr., Ron Fellows and Adrian Fernandez. MORE RSS: Time stamping is done in Pacific Time. 