    Primary Navigation Secondary Navigation Search: Crisis talks in Bolivia end without agreement Sun Oct 5, 9:20 PM ET LA PAZ (AFP) - President Evo Morales and four autonomy-seeking regional governors failed to reach agreement after 10 hours of closed-door talks to find a solution Bolivia's recent political upheaval, a government official said. Morales and the four regional leaders also failed to set a date to resume their dialogue, according to Bolivia 's minister for rural development Carlos Romero . The meeting Sunday -- the third between the parties in eight months -- took place in Cochabamba in the center of the country, in the presence of observers from the United Nations and regional organizations . Morales, Bolivia's first indigenous president, has struggled to assert his authority over the wealthy eastern half of the country where rebel governors have fought for autonomy and against a new constitution. Dialogue froze between the two sides some eight months ago and violence has flared again in recent weeks in the divided country, the poorest in South America , raising fears of civil war . Morales and governors from the regions of Santa Cruz , Beni, Tarija and Chuquisaca have received a report from technical working groups which have been trying since September 18 to find a solution to the crisis. RECOMMEND THIS STORY Recommend It: Average ( Not Rated ) AP AP AP AP AP AP AP AP AP Reuters Reuters - 20 minutes ago BBC - 41 minutes ago BBC - 1 hour, 34 minutes ago BBC - 2 hours, 9 minutes ago Sponsored Links ( ) Suburban white guy helps elect first big city black mayor. www.EyesShuttightMcgee.com A real story of maddening strikes high taxes and clashing cultures. www.theabsenteeballot.com Bolivian President Evo Morales (right) speaks during a meeting in La Paz with governors from... World Video News Search Related Searches: Elsewhere on the Web Time.com: McClatchy Newspapers: ABC News: Yahoo! Autos See the latest Land Rover vehicles on Yahoo! Autos. NEWS ALERTS Get an alert when there are new stories about: regional organizations Bolivia Cochabamba Carlos Romero President Evo Morales - - Search: Primary Navigation Copyright © 2008 . All rights reserved. The information contained in the AFP News report may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed without the prior written authority of Agence France Presse. 