    Use our pull-down menus to find more stories OR subscribers use AllAfrica's Botswana: P2 Million Worth of Stolen Copper Cables Seized This Page This Page on this article (Gaborone) 7 October 2008 Posted to the web 8 October 2008 Mqondisi Dube Selebi-Phikwe Police have seized probably the largest consignment of suspected stolen copper cables in the mining town following a raid at one of the scrap metal dealers. Selebi-Phikwe Police Station commander Superintendent Victor Nlebesi, said officers raided a scrap metal yard on Friday and found 15 tonnes of copper cables stacked in sacks in the storeroom. Nlebesi said the value of the copper cables could not be ascertained, but could be worth more than P2 million. The owner of the scrap yard was briefly detained on Friday and is now assisting the police with investigations. Nlebesi said the 46-year-old Selebi-Phikwe businessman would not be identified until formally charged. He said the suspect was helping police identify people who sold him the copper cables. "The businessman is assisting us to locate people who delivered the copper cables to him. In turn, these people will tell us where they got the cables from," Nlebesi said. Companies like BCL, Botswana Telecommunications Corporation (BTC) and Botswana Power Corporation (BPC), which are among the hardest hit, are helping police officers on the issue. He said copper cable theft is getting out of control and appealed to the public to assist the police fight the crime. "Most businesses, particularly BCL, BTC and BPC, and even individuals have had their copper cables vandalised by unscrupulous people, who in turn sell their loot to the scrap metal dealers," Nlebesi said. Nlebesi said police will continue raiding scrap metal yards under a new operation dubbed "Operation Cables" as the fight against copper cable theft intensifies. "It is apparent that copper cables are vandalised and the metal is probably sold to scrap yards," Nlebesi said. There is need for a legislation to help fight the illegal trade in copper cables. In the absence of such legislation, the country will continue losing millions of Pula to vandals, he said. Relevant Links "I believe there should be a law that prohibits scrap yards from receiving copper cables. It is unfortunate that scrap yard dealers are allowed to buy copper cables from the public. We will continue to face this problem until legislation is put in place," Nlebesi noted. AllAfrica aggregates and indexes content from over , plus more than , who are responsible for their own reporting and views. Articles and commentaries that identify allAfrica.com as the publisher are . Share this on: © 2008 Mmegi/The Reporter. All rights reserved. Distributed by AllAfrica Global Media ( ). To contact the copyright holder directly for corrections -- or for permission to republish or make other authorized use of this material, . | | | | | | Questions or Comments? . Read our . Today's Most Active Stories Most Read Most Commented Most Emailed 