    Wednesday, October 08, 2008, 07.13 PM Search NST : News Channels Blogs NSTP Papers Search » Features 2008/10/03 READ: Way of the warrior Beautiful and intense, says SU AZIZ of this book on a samuraiýs wise words. ONCE in a while, while browsing in a bookstore, one is compelled to pick up a book not because of its title, story or author, but because of its beautiful and striking cover. The Art of The Samurai: Yamamoto Tsunetomoýs Hagakure is one such book. Striking in a silky orange cloth cover, this book is collection of commentaries by a samurai, Yamamoto Tsunetomo. The book was translated into English by Barry D. Steben. Tsunetomo was a former retainer to Nabeshima Mitsushige, the third ruler of what is now the Saga prefecture in Japan. A man named Tsuramoto Tashiro, compiled these commentaries from his conversations with Tsunetomo. Tsunetomo tells ýhow to foster courage, serve selflessly, become a skilled master of your own destiny, and infuse life in the here and now with beauty while still acknowledging its transienceý. Tsunetomoýs timeless wisdom and profound aphorisms reflect important principles that are applicable even today. One such example of wisdom and astute comes under the titled ýA question of mind over matterý. It tells of a man who had travelled for days on horseback successfully arriving at his destination in one piece. When one asked the secret of how he managed it, the man replied, ýIf one doesnýt think that one is riding a horse, but rather feels as if one is sitting on a tatami mat, then one does not get fatigued in the slightestý. However, the line that has caught my eye and echoed in my head for weeks was, ýIn this world where everything is false and insincere; Only dying is completely sincereý. It is intense but one thing is for certain, this is a book that would make anyoneýs library shine. It may become a collectorýs item. MPHýs BESTSELLER LIST Non-Fiction 1. The Secret by Rhonda Byrne 2. A New Earth: Awakening to Your Lifeýs Purpose by Eckhart Tolle 3. The Last Lecture by Randy Pausch with Jeffrey Zaslow 4. Hot, Flat and Crowded: Why the World Needs a Disruptive Green Revolution by Thomas Friedman 5. How To Win Any Argument: Without Raising Your Voice, Losing Your Cool, Or Coming To Blows by Robert Mayer 6. Men Are from Mars, Women Are from Venus: A Practical Guide for Improving Communication and Getting What You Want by John Gray 7. What Your Doctor Doesnýt Know About Nutritional Medicine May Be Killing You by Ray D. Strand 8. Why Mars & Venus Collide: Improve Your Relationships by Understanding How Men and Women Cope Differently With Stress by John Gray 9. A History of God: The 4,000-Year Quest of Judaism, Christianity and Islam by Karen Armstrong 10. The Power of Thinking Big by John C. Maxwell Fiction 1. A Prisoner of Birth by Jeffrey Archer 2. Thanks for the Memories by Cecelia Ahern 3. The Appeal by John Grisham 4. Lords of the Bow by Conn Iggulden 5. The Other Boleyn Girl by Philippa Gregory 6. The Final Reckoning by Sam Bourne 7. Smoke Screen by Sandra Brown 8. The Kite Runner by Khaled Hosseini 9. The Ideal Wife by Mary Balogh 10. Keeping the Dead by Tess Gerritsen Local Authors 1. Mahathir Mohamad: An Illustrated Biography by E. Yu 2. March 8 the Day Malaysia Woke Up by Kee Thuan Chye 3. May 13: Declassified Documents on the Malaysian Riots 1969 by Kua Kia Soong 4. Biografi Muhammad bin Abdullah: Perjalanan Hidup Seorang Nabi (Siri Sejarah & Tamadun) by Zulkifli Mohd Yusoff 5. Dilema Melayu by Mahathir Bin Mohamad 6. Khadijah: Cinta Abadi, Kekasih Nabi by Dr Muhammad Abduh Yamani 7. Tipping Points: Viewpoints on the Reasons for and Impact of the March 8 Election Earthquake by Oon Yeoh 8. 51 Dalil Anwar Jadi PM by Elias Hj. Idris 9. Sendiri Mau Ingat by Dr HM Tuah Iskandar 10. Eksploitasi Peluang Menjadi Wang: Buka Mata, Buka Minda... Cari dan Cipta Peluang, untuk Menjana Pendapatan Tambahan by Syahril Jani OTHER STORIES MOST READ TODAY! TEXT ADS WEEKEND READ The exciting journey into the wilds of Ulu Muda to explore limestone caves that were not known to exist before and to see the rare specie of hornbills turned up another surprise. HYMEIR K., a caver at heart and president of the Malaysian Karst Society, reports with great disappointment coming across a tractor right in the heart of the lush virgin jungle, and the destruction that it had wreaked EXERCISE increases lifespan by an average of one to four years for people who engage in moderate to difficult exercise routines. Those additional years will be healthy ones because exercise benefits the heart, lungs, bones and muscles. Even moderate exercise has warded off many dreaded diseases. SCIENTISTS in Japan have identified a genetic mutation linked to narcolepsy, a disease that can cause someone to doze off in mid-sentence or behind the wheel of a car, according to a recent study MY INTEREST | | | | | Write to the for editorial enquiry or for sales and advertising enquiry. Copyright © 2008 NST Online. All rights reserved. 