    Welcome to AdelaideNow. Skip to: | | | | | | | news Technician facing jail over ATM scam Article from: Font size: Email article: Print article: ANDREW DOWDELL, COURT REPORTER October 08, 2008 01:00pm A SCAM artist who posed as an electronic technician to manipulate an ATM is lucky his elaborate scheme failed, the District Court heard today. Prosecutors have previously said that Christopher Rhys Politharis - who pleaded guilty to dishonestly manipulating a machine - could have yielded "unlimited" amounts of money if he had succeeded in skimming the banking details of people who later used the ATM. Politharis coolly masqueraded as a cash machine technician when he spent half an hour connecting his laptop to the ATM at Cheltenham race course in June last year. The former computing student went to great lengths to buy a computer program, designed to capture data from cards used in the ATM. However, the scam failed dismally when the program did not work and Politharis was arrested and charged weeks later. Politharis' own lawyer George Mancini described his client's lengthy criminal record as "no less than parlous." The 27-year old has a list of offences dating back to 1994 for mainly drug and dishonesty crimes. "His motivation in terms of this offending was to get money for drugs," Mr Mancini said. The court heard Politharis had previously gone by a number of aliases and had faked psychosis in a vain attempt to be transferred from Yatala Labour Prison to a mental health facility after his arrest. Prosecutor Dominic Petraccaro said Politharis had contacted a Victorian software company to arm himself with the technology to pull off the heist. "Perhaps it is fortunate for Mr Politharis that this venture did not bear any fruit for him," Mr Petraccaro said. Judge David Smith was told that Politharis would face a lesser sentence because he failed to get any money. Mr Petraccaro said despite the failure, a substantial prison term was needed to deter Politharis and others from attempting similar thefts. The court heard Politharis is also facing further charges for allegedly trying to manipulate an electronic monitoring bracelet while on home detention. He will be sentenced for the failed ATM scam later this month, when he faces a maximum penalty of ten years jail. Comment cannot be published on this story for legal reasons. Share this article Police remove an ATM targeted by Christopher Rhys Politharis in an elaborate scheme which a court heard could have yielded "unlimited" amounts of money Picture: Greg Higgs Also in South Australia Font size: Email article: Print article: Search for more stories on this topic on , our news archive service. The Advertiser e-Edition For the best local afternoon news wrap, subscribe FREE for Advertisement Tools Copyright 2008 News Limited. All times ACDT (GMT + 10:30). 