    Camden Haven Courier News Skip directly to: , , . Sports round-up Sports round-up 8/10/2008 12:36:00 PM Lake Cathie Bowling & Rec Club Social Darts Matches on 30th September were extremely close with only one point separating the top 3 teams at the end of the night! Winners were Barb & Mal after a playoff with Terrase & Glenn with both teams on 14 points. Leenor & Allan picked up the MUG awards. HP winners were Leenor on 32 & Allan after a playoff with Mal on 2. The Lake Cathie Butchery prize winners for high score on the night were Barb on 90 & Glenn on 133. Raffle results saw a big fat chook go to Rick - a cardie and Cody in the dining room. Activities continue every Tuesday with rego around 6.15 pm for a 6.30 pm dart off. Visitors are welcome. L.U.S.C. Ladies Golf On 30th September 34 ladies enjoyed an Ambrose competition. Winners: S.Silber & L.Innes 221/2 nett. Runners-up: E.Richards & J.Stapleton 241/2 nett. 3rd: C.Snudden & C.Denzel 251/2 nett. 7 Cardies were present. NHBC SOCIAL GOLF Last Wednesday 27 members contested the first round of our Club Championship. There were some excellent scores and of course some of the other kind. The field was split into three grades to offer more winning positions and the A Grade winner was T. Rose with 50 strokes. Runner-up was S. Madden with 51. B Grade's best was J. Nelson with 47 shots on C/B from B. Johnston. In C Grade S. Gunns had a win with 51 shots in front of runner-up M. Sheean with 52. NTP on the 5th in A Grade was J. Henry, B's ball was won by B. Johnston and in C Grade no one made the green. NTP on the 8th in A Grade was I. Johnston, B's ball went to W. Wells and in C Grade it was R. Woolgar. Best putting in A Grade was by M. Nelson with 21 putts, B's ball went to W. Wells and in C Grade, G. McLoughlin was the best. Next week's game will be the final round of the Club Championship and the starters will be M. Sheean & H. Dunstan. The Sunday raffle will be conducted by K. Nieass, M. McLean & C. Huntley. Tom Watson once said "The person I fear most on the last two rounds is myself". L.C.B.C. SOCIAL GOLF CLUB On Sunday September 28 the Club played a single Stableford event at Kempsey. First was J OCallaghan second Ricardo Pierce and third Peter Connor. N.T.P.S were Ricardo Pierce 2 and J Callaghan 1. This was also the second round of the club championship. Players advancing to the next round are J OCallaghan,Gary Hinson Tony Collins and Glen Smith. Jordans Lake Cathie Butchery meat prize won by Glen Smith. North Haven Bowling Club Snooker Club Results for 1st October We would like to welcome a New Member Nicole Davison. Major Winner: The Boss Colin Cooke from the Runner up president Chris Wheadon Minor winner the Lake Cathie Kid Allan Wilson from new member Nicole Davison Members do not forget tonight 8th October is the BBQ Night. From In off Red. CH (LUSC) BRIDGE CLUB Monday, 29th September, 2008. Directed by Margaret Dunlop NS. 1. Margaret Dunlop & Elaine Lockwood, 2. Bernard & Mary Salkind, 3. Robert Andrews & Margaret Sande Draw: Fred Cliffe & Irene Love EW. 1. Norma Feller & Ron Fiore, 2. Joan Holt & Pat Parsons 3. Cheryl O'Dowd & Bill Stallebrass Draw: Donald Colyer & Stuart Baalman Thursday, 2nd October, 2008. Directed by Nioni Cummins NS. 1. John & Valda Toose, 2. Heather Webb & Bill Stallebrass 3. Colin Choat & David Jitts Draw: Sarah Roberts & Elaine Sinclair EW. 1. Phillipa Crowther & Lyn Redgate, 2. Lynn Hateley & Ron Fiore/ 3 Elaine Lockwood & Sybil Ibbertson/Pam Bennett & Moreen Dellow Draw: Donald Colyer & Maria Spaans Friday, 3rd October, 2008. Directed by Terry McKenna NS. 1. Irene Love & Muriel Bishop, 2. Terry & Noeline McKenna, 3. Robert Andrews & Margaret Sander Draw: Norma Frank & Jan Kuras EW. 1. Pam Bennett & Bet Matthews, 2. Joan Gillett & Marie Spaans, 3. Barbara & Jack Lane Draw: Ray Innis & Eunice Moran Queens Lake Sailing Club Once again our Saturday race was conducted in an ENE breeze of around 10 knots with blue skies and a warm temperature. Hakuna Matata got away to the best start with the rest of the field strung out to leeward. Soon the catamarans, Decisions and Pendragon established a slender lead. Although the light conditions were not entirely suitable for fast sailing, Decisions (Tony Kuhne) visiting from Port Macquarie Sailing Club, pressed on and ended up being first home by just over 12 minutes from Pendragon (Ray Lance) and the persistent Hakuna Matata (Peter Lentz) which finished just 9 seconds behind Pendragon in the fading breeze. This was the third heat of our Spring Pointscore and the results were based on club handicaps which are adjusted after each race. Despite already having her handicap reduced twice so far this season, Hakuna Matata won from Decisions and Anything (Mark Holt). Then came Rumpus, Bitza, Serial Thrilla and Pendragon. Our two single- handed juniors completed a shorter course with Moth (Paddy Holt) just beating Buzz Lightyear (Tom Casimir) on corrected time. With dark clouds gathering to the SW all boats made good time back to the shore, well before any potential rain or strong wind. Next week we have three short races back-to-back starting at 2pm. C.H.D.D.A. Summer Comp. Results for 29th September. A big welcome to players new and old. A Grade. Team 1 Misfits 6, d Team 3 Bees Knees 3. Team 5 Easy Beats 5, d V.B. an Old & 2 New 4. Team 4 Laurieton Gdns. 7 d Team 6 2. Team 8, 6 d Team 7 Jacks Knightmares 3. Quite a few 140s scored, ( all on record ) Looks like Carol Smith was the only lady to hit a high score in A grade with a 127. High pegs to Beaver 77 & 78, Sandra Mc Donald 65 & Doug Parker 66. B Grade, Team 9 Micks Groovers 8, d team 11 Highway 1, 1. Team 10 Radicals 5 d Boo Bees 4. Team 12 Mixed Nuts 5, d Team 14 Mac Attack 4. Team 16, 5 d Team 15 Try Hards 4. Congratulations to Iris Aldridge for her 171. Other High scores to Vince Mendes 140 & Bev McQuirk 132. A nice 84 peg out to Val Pointon & 58 peg to Jim Mendes. Its 30 years since Johnny OKeefe passed away. LUSC LAWN BOWLS A very good roll up on Thursday last - 96 I believe. It was a beaut bit of sunshine, a nice breeze, very fast green, great company, what more would you want. The winning teams on the day were F Cliffe, Church Mouse and Colonel Sanders 2nd winning rink was Ron Newton the wiseman, and chatter box Beattie, 3rd winning rink was Reg Boydell, Ronald Cutler, and good heavens cousin T Evans. 1st runner up was Rink 2 Trev Leffler, the southerner Rob Milner and old Pommie Bennett in the money again, 2nd Runners up were Rowdy Smith, Keith Ibbertson and Mal Barratt. 3rd Runners up were Kevin Wormald, Leslie Tobin and Mark Ryan. Some very good bowls played and it is great to see the boys enjoying themselves. The lucky number winners were $20 to Budgie, $10 Trevor Rose and $5 to Baldy Rixon. The Xmas Club raffle winners were Robert Nixon, Scottie, J Wyper and Ray Henessay, $25 to those three gentleman and the two big family pies were won by Allan Clarke and Ray Henessay and then they had 20 meat trays won by various lucky bowlers. Visitors were Sam Smallwood from North Haven and John Manning from Port Macquarie. Welcome lads I hope you enjoyed the game and the company. Sick list, Ken McDonald. I heard the plumber went out on strike, doesnt like fiddley little jobs and Don Holbert is not feeling well., Birthdays John Moore and Clarrie Lane . Gee dont they come around quick once you pass 60. It is all down hill from there. Well our challenge to Lake Cathie is over, we will put the shield back in the cabinet, if not I will say sorry next week. Dont forget bowlers next Thursday October 9th the game starts 9.30am so be there 9.15 to work the draw. You all know it is $10 per head. Play 12 ends or the bell in the morning and the same in the afternoon. I heard Lake Cathie are going to shout if they win. It is almost worth running dead for that, but it maybe only a rumour. The mixed Xmas party is on November 29th midday start. The cost is only $10 per head or $5 per leg. The sheet will be on the board early November, so get your pens ready, it will be the same as last year as for seating arrangements, tables of 10, so get your group together and book your table. Thats about all for this week, we are only coasting along with our bowls at the moment. Championships dont start till January. Hope to see you all at the Big Shield Challenge at Lake Cathie next week. Jack High LUSC Ladies Bowls After our AGM was held today, the ladies who attended went out and had a great game of bowls. There were some good suggestions at our meeting and another meeting will be held soon to discuss our Christmas party. Raffle Winner today was Betty Thomas. The first draw went to Marian McDonald and 2nd draw to Joan Bean. Joan had some supporters today namely a son and two grandchildren and Nan bowled some good bowls for them. LUSC Fishing report Gidday punters, I will start this months report with the sad news of the passing of another club member Bev Stanford earlier this month. Bev was a member of the fishing club for over 15 years and along with her husband Chips, would not miss a weigh-in. Bev would also help with the catering by making her famous coleslaw for all of the club members to enjoy with their burgers. Bev will be truly missed and to Chips and family our thoughts and deepest sympathy go out to you. To the report, well what great weather we had for a change. The estuary plus the beach & rock boys and girls did it a bit tough, but the deep sea brigade, were the shining lights this month. Congrats goes out to Duane Bligh, Dennis Byrnes and young Ken Cowell with outstanding bags presented at weigh-in. Duanes bag consisted of kingfish to 9kg, snapper, leatherjackets and two beautiful dolphin fish. Denniss bag was predominately snapper with two crackers at 4.9kg and 4.3kgs along with a few smaller ones, meanwhile young Ken Cowell keeps rewriting the all time club record book with a 2.115kg leatherjacket, well done to all. I would also like to welcome new club members Frank and Pat White, Warren Murray and (tic tac) Beau Dean. The winners are: Junior Estuary winner Beau Dean, Mens Estuary winner Gary Edwards runner-up Warren Murray. Mens Vets Estuary winner Peter poppy Pritchard, runner-up Frank White. Ladies Estuary winner Sandra Gill. Ladies Vets Estuary winner Pat White, runner-up Marg Sheridan. Mens Deep Sea winner Duane Bligh, runner-up Dennis Byrnes. Mens Vets Deep Sea winner Ken Cowell, runner-up Kiwi ONeil. Ladies Vets Deep Sea winner Marg Sheridan. Mens Bluewater over 100mtrs winner Duane Bligh. Well done to all anglers. I hear that the Silver Mullet is making a come back to the fishing scene for the next comp, so I guess he will be out terrorising his usual haunts, good to see that he is on the mend, so look out! Just a reminder that the next club comp will be held on October 25 and 26, 2008 with the weigh-in held at the rear of the LUSC Club at 1pm. I hope to see you all there. Until next month, happy hunting. LUSC Indoor Sports Bowls There were two three game winners this week. After the draw winners were Marge Minshall and Betty Bradley, runners-up were Bil Hyde and Beryl Duck. Consolation winner on the evening were Thelma Ruhan and Catherine Lakeman, Laura Bowmaker and Roy Woolgar. Good evening of bowls had by all. Players remember names in by 6.45 if possible. See you next week. LUSC Wednesday Night Euchre Winners: Tony Danton and Sid Charlwood, runners-up Denise Templeman, Dorothy Hatch, Neil Mathieson, Barney Hurrell. Good evening of Euchre, we had 26 players this week. Lucky door prizes of wine and fancy biscuits were won by Mavis Coates, Denise Templeman, Adolf Wagner and Sid Charlwood. Remember during Daylight Saving our starting time will be 7.30pm. See you all next week. North Haven Indoor Bowls There were 26 players last night with a few of our regulars away. We had 3x3 game winners Eleanor Smith and Joy Lees, Jack Caples and Adolf Wagner and Lorna Hoar and Beryl Duck. Nice to see Beryl back to our bowls night. The winners draw out were Eleanor and Joy with Jack and Adolf the runners-up. Lorna and Beryl received a scratchie each. Other scratchies were won by Jean Ryan and Betty Twomey, Barney Hurrell and Bill Taylor and Jim Cleary and Dorothy Greenaway. A get well wish for all our bowlers who are not feeling the best. Visitors are always welcome come and try your hand at indoor bowls. Names in if possible by 6.45 for 7 oclock start. Comments No comments yet. Be the first to comment below. Post A Comment Screen name * Email address * Remember me? Comment * We invite and encourage our readers to post comments. Comments are moderated and will appear as soon as our editor has approved them. When posting comments you agree to be bound by our . 22/09/2008 | Once upon a time finding a mate was easy. It was a childhood sweetheart, someone from church or if you were ugly, the other ugly person. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | SEND... SAVE... SHARE... 