    Web NASDAQ.com Page: Symbol List: | | | Mauritania Junta In Talks With AU After Snubbing Ultimatum ADDIS ABABA, Ethiopia (AFP)--Mauritania's military junta met top African Union officials in Addis Ababa Tuesday, a day after an A.U. deadline for reinstating the ousted president passed unheeded. The eight-man delegation held talks with the pan-African body's top executive, Jean Ping, even as opposition protesters were set to defy a ban on demonstrations in the Mauritanian capital, Nouakchott. No details on the nature of the discussions were immediately available. "The delegation arrived yesterday (Monday) in Addis Ababa. It is led by Justice Minister Tidjane Bal and consists of several key officials, including a foreign ministry official in charge of African affairs," Assane Ba, spokesman for the A.U.'s peace and security council, told AFP. The military junta, led by General Mohamed Ould Abdel Aziz, had largely ignored an Oct. 6 deadline set by the African bloc for the "return of constitutional order" in the west African country. The junta ousted Sidi Ould Cheikh Abdallahi, the country's first democratically elected president, on Aug. 6. The A.U. has threatened to impose sanctions, and opponents of the junta in the country had called Monday for the bloc to make good on its threat against the junta. "We demand the immediate implementation of sanctions against the junta, in line with the ultimatum set by the A.U. if the military does not give up power," said Mohamed Ould Mouloud, a spokesman for the National Front for the Defense of Democracy, a coalition of five anti-coup parties. The Front later announced plans to hold a march at 4 pm (1600 GMT) Tuesday in Nouakchott despite a continued ban on demonstrations to keep up pressure on the junta. Sunday, riot police used tear gas to disperse several small protests by supporters of the ousted president. According to the anti-coup movement, the junta has begun an "escalation of repression against all political opposition." In Nouakchott, politicians backing the military coup shrugged off the A.U. ultimatum. "We don't care about these ultimatums, this doesn't scare anybody," said Sidi Mohamed Ould Maham, a spokesman for the majority of lawmakers who support the new military leadership. Speaking to AFP late Monday, an anonymous A.U. official said: "The A.U. would maintain and reiterate its position on the return of constitutional law in Mauritania." The sanctions could take the shape of travel restrictions and asset freezes such as those the A.U. imposed in the Comoros isle of Anjouan on Mohamed Bacar, the renegade leader who was ousted by A.U .forces earlier this year, officials have said. The continental body has also been pushing for the release of the ousted Mauritanian president. The army says he has been kept under house arrest but his daughter says his whereabouts are unknown. -0 Click here to go to Dow Jones NewsPlus, a web front page of today's most important business and market news, analysis and commentary: http:// . You can use this link on the day this article is published and the following day. (MORE TO FOLLOW) Dow Jones Newswires 10-07-080857ET Copyright (c) 2008 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Subscribe to In Focus RSS headline updates from: Popular Sections: | | | | | | | Popular Tags: | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 