    Search Advertisement The top videos on CBS4.com | | | E-mail This Page Gas Station Crash, Inferno Caught On Home Video Required fields are marked with an asterisk(*) Send me a copy of this e-mail. The information you provide will be used only to send the requested e-mail and will not be used to send any other e-mail communications. Read more in our | Oct 7, 2008 12:10 am US/Eastern Gas Station Crash, Inferno Caught On Home Video Gas Pumps Exploded After Collision FORT LAUDERDALE (CBS4) ― Police and fire investigators are at a Fort Lauderdale gas station Monday looking into what caused a truck to careen into the gas pumps and injure three people. Flames flared 40 feet into the air after a pick-up truck slammed into two gas pumps at a BP station on West Davie Boulevard and Riverland Road Sunday night. The collision led to an explosion. Roy Link was behind the wheel of the pick-up truck that plowed into the pumps. Now investigators are checking into witness allegations that Link ran a red light. He said it was green when approached the intersection, and that he had the right of way. "I locked the breaks up, swerved and missed the white one, clipped the blue vehicle that was heading north bound and that sent me straight into the pump," Link told CBS4's Ted Scouten . "I just kept hearing pop noise, pop noise and every time I heard it I thought it was going to explode." Dazed and confused, Roy managed to get out of his truck. As he was about to run for his life, he said he saw Winston Motley engulfed in flames, crying out for help. "I see this guy on the floor trying to roll around, ya know, trying to get the fire out and yelling, help me, help me, help me. So I run over and start dragging him out of the fire, dragging him as far as I can because I was thinking this thing was going to blow," explained Link. As all this happened, Robert Harris was pumping gas into his car with his mother inside. He leapt into action in order to rescue his mother, who was trapped in the car as the flames inched closer. "I was frightened that I was going to die, that I was gonna die. But then my son saved me by the will of God," said Shanetta Jones. Robert is grateful both he and his mom got away without a scratch. "I was terrified, I can't even explain it right now, I'm just thanking God I'm alive still," said Robert Harris. Now investigators want to know what caused the crash. Police say Roy Link's pick-up and another car collided in the intersection of Davie Blvd. and SW 27 Avenue. Roy says he had a green light. Police are still investigating. "I locked the breaks up, swerved and missed the white one, clipped the blue vehicle that was heading north bound and that sent me straight into the pump," explained Link. A Fort Lauderdale police officer was driving by when the explosion occurred. "He raced over to find the emergency pumps to turn off the pumps, which he did," said Detective Kathy Collins. (© MMVIII, CBS Broadcasting Inc. All Rights Reserved.) You may not believe what you see in these videos From Our Partners You need the latest Flash player to view video content. to download. Click here to if you already have the latest Flash Player. Three people were hurt when a truck crashed into a gas pump after hitting another vehicle. CBS Three people were hurt when a truck crashed into a gas pump after hitting another vehicle. CBS Related Slideshows Related Stories (10/6/2008) Local News Top News Stories Advertisement © MMVIII, CBS Television Stations Inc. All Rights Reserved. 