    Navigation Primary Navigation Secondary Navigation Search Motor racing-Formula One statistics for Japanese Grand Prix Reuters - Wednesday, October 8 Oct 8 - Some Formula One statistics for Sunday's Japanese Grand Prix at Fuji: - - - - WINNERS Spaniard Fernando Alonso's victory in Singapore for Renault made him the seventh different winner in 15 races so far this season. The last time Formula One had so many different race winners was in 2003, when a total of eight drivers won a race. Alonso's win was the 20th of his Formula One career, lifting the double world champion level with Finland's Mika Hakkinen in the all-time lists. Only 10 drivers have won more races than them. Ferrari's Brazilian Felipe Massa has won five races this season to Lewis Hamilton's four for McLaren. However even if Massa wins the remaining three races, he will not be champion if Hamilton finishes second in all of them. Ferrari have won 208 races in total, McLaren 161 and Williams 113. Renault have 34 victories to their credit. - RAIKKONEN Ferrari's world champion Kimi Raikkonen has failed to score a point in his last four races. This is the Finn's worst run of form since 2004 when he scored just one point from the first seven races of the season. Raikkonen last went four races without a point in 2002, when he was with McLaren and only the first six drivers scored. Despite his points drought, Raikkonen can still set a record for the most fastest laps in a single season. His fastest lap in Singapore was his 10th of the year, equalling the record held jointly with now-retired Michael Schumacher. - POINTS BMW-Sauber are the only team to have scored in every race this season. The team have also scored points in every race since the season-opening Australian Grand Prix of March 2007, a run of 32 successive races. Force India's Giancarlo Fisichella and Adrian Sutil are the only drivers yet to score a point in 2008 (not including Takuma Sato and Anthony Davidson with now-defunct Super Aguri). - JAPAN Alonso, Raikkonen, Brazilian Rubens Barrichello and Hamilton are the only active drivers to have won in Japan. Six of the last 10 races in Japan, including last year's at Fuji, have been won by the driver starting on pole position. - QUALIFYING Renault's Alonso is the only driver to have out-qualified his team mate in every race so far this season. Australian Mark Webber has out-qualified Red Bull team mate David Coulthard 14-1. - PODIUM Singapore was the fifth race this season without a Ferrari driver on the podium and second in a row. Recommend this article Average (0 votes) AP - 59 minutes ago AFP - 2 hours 5 minutes ago AP - 2 hours 25 minutes ago AP - Thursday, October 9 AFP - Thursday, October 9 Most Popular – Sports Sports 