This marvelous anthology, featuring the writing and artwork of more than 100 children’s book creators, is doubly impressive. It not only testifies to the wide variety of experiences that have swirled around the White House in Washington, D.C., through our history, but to the amazing creativity of the human mind. Funny, dramatic, sad, and fascinating, the essays, personal accounts, historical fiction, and poetry are joined to remarkably varied artwork. Where’s My Mummy? By Carolyn Crimi, illustrated by John Manders, Candlewick Press, $15.99, 32 pages, ages 4-7. This humorous picture book is a nice selection for Halloween. It tells of Little Baby Mummy, who during a game of hide-and-shriek one night loses track of Big Mama Mummy. Kids will laugh as the little mummy meets a variety of humorously scary creatures who don’t frighten him like a little mouse does. Knitty Kitty By David Elliott, illustrated by Christopher Denise. Candlewick Press, $16.99, 32 pages, ages 4-8. In this picture book with adorable illustrations, big Knitty Kitty works all day with her long needles making toasty articles of clothing for three mischievous kittens. But at bedtime, she discovers that they’ve used the clothes to dress a snowman outside. No matter, though, because Knitty Kitty can keep her kittens warm herself. Little Monsters By Jan Pienkowski, Candlewick Press, $6.99, 12 pages, all ages. Incredible and irresistible pop-out monsters that will delight young kids emerge one after another from this book by pop-up expert Jan Pienkowski. Big Little Monkey By Carole Lexa Schaefer, illustrated by Pierre Pratt, Candlewick Press, $16.99, 32 pages, ages 3-5. Eye-catching, unique illustrations are a highlight of this picture book about a little monkey who ventures into the jungle while his family is still asleep to prove his independence. PAPERBACKS: “The Jade Dragon” by Carolyn Marsden and Virginia Shin-Mui Loh (Candlewick Press, $5.99, 176 pages, ages 7-10) tells the story of a girl who must decide whether to entrust to a girl she hopes will become her best friend her most precious possession, a hand-carved jade dragon. Richard Tambling is editor of the Living section. 
