      Jobs Autos Real Estate Yellow Pages Coupons Newspaper Ads Weather Traffic Search Rep-Am.com: Member Login Special Sections News | | | Text Size | Wednesday, September 10, 2008 11:10 PM EDT New Haven officer killed in crash, second injured By JOHN CHRISTOFFERSEN Associated Press Writer NEW HAVEN, Conn. — A veteran New Haven police sergeant was killed and a second officer critically injured when their cruisers collided as they responded to a violent domestic dispute late Tuesday night, police said. Sgt. Dario "Scott" Aponte, a 17-year veteran of the department and a father of four, died of injuries from the crash, police said. Officer Diane Gonzalez, a 13-year veteran and mother of three who was in the other cruiser, was in critical condition at Yale-New Haven Hospital. Police on Wednesday released a 911 call tape of the domestic dispute in which screaming can be heard in the background as the caller begs police to respond. "The husband is hitting the mom. The kids are crying. He's hitting her," the caller said. Later, the witness said, "Are they coming? He's going to kill her. ... He's dangerous. Bring the cops, please. There's kids." Authorities are still investigating the domestic dispute, and no charges have been filed. Police say the woman in the incident was not seriously injured. Police said the two officers were on their way to the incident in the city's Fair Haven section when their cruisers collided at Chapel and East streets shortly before midnight. Authorities released few details of the crash during a news conference Wednesday morning. It was not immediately clear whether the officers were wearing their seat belts. Gonzalez had to be extricated from her cruiser, police said. Both cruisers' emergency lights and sirens were on at the time, officials said. State police are investigating the accident. The driver of a third vehicle involved in the accident was not injured. Sgt. Louis Cavaliere, president of the local police union, said Aponte was a gentleman and a fun-loving person who risked and sacrificed his life in doing his job. "He paid the ultimate price," Cavaliere said. "His heart was in the police department." Police Chief James Lewis added, "It's like losing a family member." Aponte, whose youngest child is 4 months old, joined the department in November 1991 and was promoted to detective in April 2004. He worked in the crime scene unit until his promotion to sergeant in July, when he switched to the overnight patrol shift. His wife is also a New Haven police officer. New Haven has lost several police officers in the past few years, including Officer Dan Picagli in 2006 and Officer Robert Fumiatti in 2007. Picagli, 38, was struck and killed by a sport utility vehicle while directing traffic at a construction site on Oct. 21, 2006. Fumiatti, 35, died on Jan. 10, 2007, of a heart condition four years after he was shot in the face during a 2002 drug raid. Arnold Bell, who was convicted of assault in the shooting, was sentenced to 45 years in prison. Another veteran New Haven officer, Officer George Smith, died while off duty on Nov. 26, 2006. Smith, 56, had been a member of the department since 1978. Comments » No comments posted. » » Registered users: *Member ID: *Password: Remember login? ( Not a member yet? Sign up now! Rep-Am.com requires users to register before commenting on stories but it's quick and it's free, so what are you waiting for?! Do not use usernames or passwords from your financial accounts! Note: Fields marked with an asterisk (*) are required! *Create a Member ID: *Choose a password: *Re-enter password: *E-mail Address: *Year of Birth: (children under 13 cannot register) *First Name: *Last Name: Home Phone: Business Phone: Address: *City: *State: *Zip Code: More News Connecticut News Business Today In History Morning 5 Wed 1:58 am Wed 1:58 am Wed 1:58 am Wed 1:58 am Wed 1:58 am Wed 1:58 am (6) (5) (5) (4) (4) (3) Poll Did Tuesday's Town Hall presidential debate change your mind about either of the candidates? No I've switched to Sen. Obama I've switched to Sen. McCain | | | | | | 389 Meadow St. | P.O. Box 2090 | Waterbury CT 06722-2090 | (800) 992-3232 All content except otherwise noted © 1997-2008 American-Republican Inc. All Rights Reserved. 