      USA or HOT TOPICS: She's (almost) always on the list Kendra's Back From Bahamas Just in Time for GND Mon., Oct. 6, 2008 11:57 AM PDT by Even though Kendra Wilkinson was off partying in the Bahamas Saturday night—without Hef , Holly or Bridget —she did make it home in time for Sunday's fifth-season premiere of E!'s . Whether she was able to stay awake through the episode is another story. Kendra seemed wiped after spending Saturday night at Aura nightclub in the Atlantis resort with Playmate Brittany Binger . She even got behind the deejay booth at one point. As for Hef, Kendra said he's "doing good" despite her absence and his best girl Holly going last week. In fact, the legendary Playboy mogul was seen out the next night with three new girls on his arm. Read More filed under , 10 Comments Now loading... Add Your Comment! Guests E! Online members | Play nice and have fun. And please, no HTML tags or special characters including [&*#()!@$]. You've got 1000 characters left. VIDEO Premiere: "Body of Lies" Does Leo still get nervous on the carpet? Hear DiCaprio dish! Plus, Russell Crowe opens up about his latest role. Premiere: "Blindness" Mark Ruffalo reveals how he keeps his relationship going in Hollywood! Plus, gab with Julianne Moore and Sandra Oh. Premiere: "Rachel Getting Married" Anne Hathaway reveals how she shattered her Hollywood stereotype in this dark and daring new role. Hear all about it! 2008 Emmys Winner: "Mad Men" Cast Listen in as the gorgeous gals of "Mad Men" sound off on their shocking win--and what makes their show so special! Hollywood Party hop with your favorite celebs in our star-studded photo gallery! Blogroll Radio Schedule Podcast Couples and Carousing Holly Madison, Paris Hilton, Lindsay Lohan You must have JavaScript enabled to listen to the podcast Bashes and Bashing Jonas Brothers, Lindsay Lohan, Jessica Alba You must have JavaScript enabled to listen to the podcast Jet-setters and Bed Hoppers Jennifer Lopez, Joe Francis, Lindsay Lohan You must have JavaScript enabled to listen to the podcast VMA Pah-tays Paris Hilton, Mischa Barton, Joel Madden You must have JavaScript enabled to listen to the podcast Subscribe: Get Your E! News Now Text ENEWS to 4INFO (44636) for daily celeb news alerts Standard messaging rates apply. Did you know you can grab smokin' hot E! Online news, review and gossip through our RSS service? New to RSS feeds? Enter a valid address Birthdate: Enter your full birthdate: I have read and agree to the terms of the I have read and agree to the terms of the or has been subscribed to the E! News Now Newsletter. To change your settings, go to your preferences. VIDEO Premiere: "Body of Lies" Does Leo still get nervous on the carpet? Hear DiCaprio dish! Plus, Russell Crowe opens up about his latest role. Premiere: "Blindness" Mark Ruffalo reveals how he keeps his relationship going in Hollywood! Plus, gab with Julianne Moore and Sandra Oh. Premiere: "Rachel Getting Married" Anne Hathaway reveals how she shattered her Hollywood stereotype in this dark and daring new role. Hear all about it! 
