    LaTEsT NEwS ý SPONSoR . LATEsT ViEWS ý ý ý ý ý ý ý ý ý ý ý ý ý ý ý ý ý ý ý ý ý ý ý ý ý ý CLIcK THiS ý ý ý ý ý ý ý ý ý ý ý ROcK N' TICKeTS Search for Tickets GoT MERcH? Search For Posters & T-shirts! . Eric Hutchinson Live From Daryl's House 10/08/2008 . (PR) Pop artist Eric Hutchinson grew up in the Washington, DC/Maryland area as an avid listener of Daryl Hall and John Oates' music, so it was practically a dream come true when he got to appear with the man himself on his free monthly webshow, Live From Daryl's House, on the 12th, and latest, edition of the concert series, which can be seen starting Oct. 15. "Being on Live From Daryl's House was a memorable day for me," says Hutchinson, whose album Sounds Like This, released on his own Let's Break Records, debuted at #1 on Billboard's Heatseekers Chart and crashed the Top 10 on the iTunes chart after being touted by noted Internet blogger Perez Hilton, and was subsequently picked up for distribution by Warner Bros. Records. "Getting to sing 'Private Eyes' along with Daryl and then hearing him sing along to my songs was a surreal and amazing experience." In addition to that song, the two performed a cover of Rufus' "Tell Me Something Good" and a version of Hutchinson's own hit single, "Rock & Roll," which he played just last month on The Tonight Show with Jay Leno. "Being a student of pop-soul music, it was exciting to meet and work with Daryl, who has been a pioneer of that sound," said Hutchinson. "He gave me some great advice about being an artist and a professional." Live From Daryl's House has become a destination spot for showcasing these unique collaborations between Daryl Hall and the latest in up-and-coming artists as well as veteran acts. A road warrior, Hutchinson has toured with Joe Jackson and G. Love and has supported Blind Melon, Jack's Mannequin, Jason Mraz, OneRepublic and many others. His song, "Rock & Roll," appeared on the soundtrack and in the motion picture Sisterhood of the Traveling Pants 2. Among his cited influences are Stevie Wonder, the Beatles, Michael Jackson, Elvis Costello, Paul Simon, Prince, Billy Joel, Ben Folds Five and G. Love & Special Sauce. The show with Eric Hutchinson can be seen exclusively at www.livefromdarylshouse.com starting Oct. 15 at 8:00 pm EST. to read today's full Day in Rock report . ...end SEARcH SPONSoR . DaY IN RoCK REPORtS ý ý ý ý VIeWS & SERiES ý Artist of the Month ý Tag Team: - ý antiTainment: - ý Backtrack: ý HHH: - ý - - ý Passport: - ý - ý Live: - - - - ý - - ý - ý - - ý - - ý - - ý - ý - - ý ý Photos: - - - - See the left hand menu for more reviews TODaY'S NEwS - - - - - Copyright© 1998 - 2008 All rights reserved. antiMusic works on a free link policy for reprinting of our original articles, Please for legal restrictions and terms of use applicable to this site. Use of this site signifies your agreement to the terms of use. 