    Tuesday, October 07, 2008 Archives > News-times > Sports | | ( No comments posted. ) | | Text Size Divots Published: Sunday, October 5, 2008 2:05 AM EDT What a great time of year here on the Crystal Coast! The weather has cooled, the greens have healed from last month’s aerifying, and the thick Bermuda rough is finally slowing its growth. The tourists, for the most part, have gone back north and left the fairways to us. It’s a great time to get out on the links and flog that little white ball into submission. We’re fortunate that the Gulf Stream keeps it warm enough around here for very comfortable golf all the way until Christmas. Up north, an avid golfer is lucky to get in 25 rounds of golf a year. You can play that many in a month around here. Don’t waste this time of year. Get out and tee it up while it’s still perfect. •ý •ý • A bit of golf history: While the great Harry Vardon won the 1899 British Open, Jack White came from way back in the field to claim second place when he shot a course record 75 at Royal St. George’s Golf Club. The news of White’s great round sped off to London by telegraph, but with no understanding of golf, an editor at a London newspaper wrote a headline claiming that White had raced around the course in 7 minutes, 5 seconds. The media has only gotten worse since that gaffe 110 years ago. That London reporter would be a superstar at the New York Times today. And a bit more concerning newspaper storyline: Former PGA Tour Commissioner Fred Corcoran once refereed a two-hole match between two blind golfers played at night during the Cleveland Open. The next day, Corcoran saw Ky Laffoon on the practice green. One of the more colorful characters on the tour in those years, Laffoon listened while Corcoran raved over how well the blind men putted. Fred demonstrated how one of them never moved his head during the stroke. With Corcoran’s coaching, Laffoon tried the blind man’s method with such success that he tried it during the Cleveland Open and won it. The next day, a newspaper headline read, “Blind Man Teaches Ty Laffoon How To Putt.” •ý •ý • As great as our recent Ryder Cup win was, the U.S. goals are not quite fulfilled. We won on U.S. soil, but it has been 15 years since a U.S. team captained by Tom Watson last won in Europe. So that leads to the next big question ... who will captain the U. S. team in 2010? Paul Azinger did such a good job at Valhalla that his own players were chanting “Azinger in 10” while they were celebrating with champagne. His successor most assuredly will come from Corey Pavin, Fred Couples, Mark O’Meara or Davis Love. My choice would be Corey Pavin, but he turns 50 next year and may be too busy trying to establish himself on the Champions Tour. Davis Love is my sentimental favorite as he played his college golf for the Tar Heels. Couples would do a good job, but he has accepted the captaincy for the 2009 Presidents Cup, and the PGA needs a two-year commitment for the Ryder Cup. O’Meara is a good friend of Tiger Woods, but one drawback is his advocacy for players being paid for being on the Ryder Cup team. It will be interesting to see how it shapes out. •ý •ý • The purpose of a caddie is to carry the bag and do everything he can to help lower his player’s score. Sometimes it doesn’t work out. Raymond Floyd was competing in the 1987 Player’s Championship at the Stadium Course. He unleashed a perfect drive on the 11th hole, but it turned out to be his most costly shot of the championship. His caddie had left his bag lying in the fairway. Raymond’s ball hit the ground and rolled into his bag, costing him a two-stroke penalty for hitting his equipment. I wonder what the caddie was doing for a living the next day? •ý •ý • Tomorrow marks the long-awaited opening of MacDaddy’s in Cape Carteret. MacDaddy’s is a huge and ultra-modern bowling, arcade, sports bar complex. Why do I mention it in a golf column? It was built on location at the Golfin’ Dolphin Recreation Center and Driving Range. After beating a bucket of balls into submission, you’ll find me at the MacDaddy’s Sports Bar watching football or golf on the wide screen televisions. I might even quaff down a couple of Bud Lites, change my nickname to “Ski” and bowl a few frames. Life is good in Cape Carteret! •ý •ý • Golf quotes of the week: — Rail-splitting produced an immortal president in Lincoln, but golf hasn’t produced even a good congressman. — Will Rogers. — Golf courses are the best place to observe ministers, but none of them are above cheating a bit. — John D. Rockefeller. — Rock-a-bye, baby, ’til Father comes home; Father’s off golfing and mother’s alone; He called me this morning, he wanted his cleek; Perhaps he’ll be home again, sometime next week. — Mother Goose on the Links, 1909. — No one will ever have golf under his thumb. No round ever will be so good it could not have been better. Perhaps this is why golf is the greatest of games. You are not playing a human adversary; you are playing ‘old man par.’ — Bobby Jones. (Editor’s note: Mick Brown writes a regular golf column for The News-Times. Brown is a PGA of America teaching pro at the Golfin’ Dolphin practice facility in Cape Carteret. He is also the head pro and director of golf at the Star Hill Golf Club in Cape Carteret.) Article Rating Current Rating: 0 of 0 votes! Rate File: Reader Comments The following are comments from the readers. In no way do they represent the view of carolinacoastonline.com. Submit a Comment We encourage your feedback and dialog, but profanity, vulgarity, name calling and personal attacks are not acceptable in this forum. Don't make us hit the delete button! All comments are reviewed by our Web staff before appearing on the Web site.   Return to: « | « | Online Poll Copyright © 2008 - CarolinaCoastOnline.com | | 