  Internet home of Philippine news | | | | | | | | | | | | | Web www.sunstar.com.ph Local News Wednesday, October 08, 2008 Akbar's kin want authorities to probe Indama's retraction of testimonies By Bong Garcia THE relatives of the late Liberal Party representative Wahab Akbar of the nearby province of Basilan is calling the concerned authorities to look into the real motive behind the escape of Ikram Indama, a suspect who turned "provisional witnesses" in the killing of the congressman. Lantawan Mayor Tahira Ismael, niece of the late congressman Akbar and the family's spokesperson, said Tuesday that the concerned authorities should investigate why Indama suddenly retracted his statement when he surrendered a day after he escaped Monday from the Criminal Investigation and Detection Group (CIDG) headquarters. Indama, the missing witness in the November 2007 Batasan blast resurfaced Tuesday and claimed to have been forced to implicate former Basilan congressman Abdulgani "Gerry" Salapuddin in the incident that killed six people, including Akbar, and wounded several others. Interviewed by reporters after he resurfaced, Indama said Salapuddin was not involved in the November 13, 2007 explosion that killed Akbar. Ismael said they suspect that there are some people behind Indama's escape on Monday, citing "why there is a sudden change in his decision." "Talagang may hinala kami, malungkot ang taong Basilan, malungkot ang pamilyang Akbar sa nangyari. Kahapon lang ng umaga nakatakas, unang-una malaking tanong sa gobyerno, malaking tanong sa concern authorities, bakit nakatakas mula sa kanyang kulungan si Ikram Indama," Ismael said. "Pangalawa, ang bilis-bilis at ang dali-dali na nagkaroon siya ng decision na ire-re-tract niya yong mga affidavit na kanyang inexecute noon," she added. However, Ismael said they remain confident that "we will be able to win the case against all of the accused with or without Indama." For more , visit . (October 8, 2008 issue) Write letter to the editor. E NETWORK HEADLINE E NETWORK NEWS [ ] [ ] [ ] BUSINESS OPINION SPORTS LIFESTYLE FEATURE I I Contact the website at I 