Breaking News » Updated: 6:28 PM, October 8, 2008 > > PEP : Sunshine Dizon returns via 'Obra' 10/06/2008 | 03:38 PM | | | | Young actress Sunshine Dizon is back after taking a leave from show business following her hospitalization a few months back. For her comeback vehicle, Sunshine was chosen by GMA-7 to star in the drama anthology Obra for the month of October. Sunshine clarified that her poor health was caused by incessant migraine attacks and not depression or any other serious illness as previously speculated. "Hindi ko naman itinago na ever since naman talaga, everybody knew I have really bad migraine and that was the reason why I was hospitalized for about a month and a half," explained Sunshine to the members of the press last October 3, at a press conference held at the Imperial Palace Suites on Tomas Morato, Quezon City. GOD'S WILL . To counter off these chronic attacks, Sunshine developed a habit of dashing straight to the nearest hospital to have her self injected with a powerful painkiller. These sudden trips to the hospital became frequent particularly during tapings. "Siyempre, ayaw mo naman ma pack-up ýyong shooting," she reasoned out. Sunshine eventually got so used with the medication that her body soon demanded more than the normal dosage. Aware and cautious of some people's tendency to exhibit narrow-mindedness in dealing with a situation like hers, Sunshine politely offered, "People can be judgmental because they're not knowledgeable with what I'm going through." Despite being sidelined, which in effect forced her home network to hand some projects originally intended for her to fellow stars, Sunshine believes that the incident was God's will of freeing her from the previous medication. The long rest led the young actress to discover alternative medicines that would help soothe her recurring migraine attacks. "I'm trying to shun away form taking too many medications din," Sunshine, who resorted to natural means, enthused. BACK ON TRACK . For her television return, Sunshine is happy and proud to be given the lead role in Obra following Katrina Halili and JC de Vera. Sunshine's Obra stint will feature four stories directed by four equally good directors. The episodes "Rosa Negra," "Drama Queen," "Butch," and "Sapi" listed topnotch directors Joel Lamangan, Maryo J. delos Reyes, Toppel Lee, and Jun Lana. "Actually, they [GMA-7 management] really made sure that the stories that will be given to me is sana daw ma-challenge ako which is very challenging naman," said Sunshine. In "Butch," Sunshine takes on the role of a lesbian who experiences the joy and misery of being a surrogate mom only to lose her child. She then assumes the role of a has-been actress ravaged by vices while still pining for a lost love in "Drama Queen." In "Rosa Negra," Sunshine portrays the character of a negrita who remains hopeful in a world of cynicism. The last episode, in time for the Halloween, is "Sapi" where Sunshine portrays the role of a woman possessed by an evil spirit with a sinister past.
