  Text Size Norman man charged Associated Press - October 7, 2008 9:15 PM ET NORMAN, Okla. (AP) - A man accused of concealing a python and tortoise taken from Norman's Little River Zoo has been charged in Cleveland County District Court. Cody Daniel Hawkins, 24, was charged Tuesday with knowingly concealing stolen property, cruelty to animals and unlawful possession of a controlled dangerous drug. The cruelty charge stems from a kitten that was placed in the python's cage and eaten. Hawkins is also accused of having the drug Ecstasy in a pocket while being searched at Cleveland County Jail. The animals were returned to the zoo following Hawkins' arrest at his home on Sept. 24. But the 12-foot-long albino Burmese python named Merlin was taken again three days later. It was returned anonymously on Monday. Information from: The Oklahoman, Copyright 2008 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Web Exclusives It's a Broken Arrow football tradition. Click inside to learn how a local restaurant is helping the Tigers serve up victory after victory! If you're looking for a nice day in the country right here in the city, head out to Pumpkin Town. A Wagoner County baby has just been announced as the winner of the Parents Magazine Cover Photo Contest. Some News On 6 viewers are speaking their minds about the bailout bill. Click in to read what they're saying and give your feedback! Local News San Francisco police, the FBI and U.S. Marshalls have been looking for Christopher Ablett for more than a month now. Dozens of Tulsans were keeping a close eye on Thursday night's presidential debate. The I-244 bridges over the Arkansas River, both east and west bound, have been deemed structurally deficient. Dr. Gary Gerber was up for the top job, once before. But, he was passed over for Dr. Jim Sisney. Enjoy stories brought to you by Tulsa's only dedicated team of web journalists. Don't be a victim! Get safety advice from crime reporter Lori Fullbright. Click on to find the latest lake levels plus check out the newest fishing photos! See what events are going on in Green Country and submit details about your own non-profit event. Join LeAnne, Rich, and Alan for the latest news, weather, & live traffic reports. Get the latest forecast and stay up-to-date on Oklahoma's changing weather. Learn more about the team that brings you Tulsa's most watched news, weather, and sports! Never run short of meal ideas - sign up for our weekly recipes email! All content © Copyright 2000-2007, WorldNow and KOTV. All Rights Reserved. For more information on this site, please read our and . . 