    This Site Web Search powered by YAHOO! SEARCH (From the last 12 hours) (From the last 12 hours) CLICK PLAY TO HEAR STORY! Questions/Answers Questions and answers on Daily Bulletin stories from readers like you. More News Font Resize No deal: Doubled rent prompts RC storeowners to move Wendy Leung, Staff Writer Article Created: 10/04/2008 08:15:59 PM PDT RANCHO CUCAMONGA - Mike Smith and Jessie Martinez, owners of What a Deal gift store, are firm believers that when a door closes, another opens. The door to their business on Foothill Boulevard and Vineyard Avenue didn't exactly close, but last month, they received a notice that their rent would nearly double by the end of the year. The plaza, known as the Thomas Winery property, got new owners last year, and among the biggest changes will be the arrival of Fresh & Easy, a grocery story. "We were shocked," said Smith, who opened the Rancho Cucamonga store almost five years ago. "At first, we thought we were going to have to close." But Smith and Martinez found an Upland location that is 300 square feet bigger and $75 cheaper than their recent rent, so they moved. Last week, they reopened What a Deal and are drawing customers by slashing prices by half for any item $5 or more. The relocation of What a Deal is an early indication of the transformation to come at the northeast corner of Foothill and Vineyard. It's also a sign that just because Rancho Cucamonga is approaching buildout, it will still see plenty of changes with infill projects and efforts to spruce up aging developments. Economic development manager Mike Nelson said he expects the remodel will bring in activity. "Fresh & Easy will be a magnet for the center. It'll help generate other businesses," Nelson said. It's not Advertisement clear when construction will begin, but when it does, two buildings will be demolished to pave way for the specialty market. The Thomas Winery building occupied by Bobby Baja's, Coffee Klatch and Wine Taylor will not be affected. But some tenants, such as Antonino's Italian Restaurant, will have to move to existing buildings on the north or east side of the plaza. Antonino's, which has been at its current location for nearly 11 years, will move to another location in the same plaza in the beginning of 2009. "I'd like to stay here but I have no option," said Sartaj Singh, owner of the Italian eatery. "The difficult thing is I'll have to spend money to remodel, and these days, nobody has money to spend." Singh estimated that he'll have to spend more than $400,000 to move. But the plus side is he can build a larger banquet room and have the chance to replace his restaurant's outdated designs. The Thomas Winery project is at the site of the state's oldest winery. Planning Director James Troyer said details of the renovation are still going through the Planning Commission approval process, but they will include themes of the historic winery. "The store itself will not be a conventional Fresh & Easy. It'll have a winery theme," he said. The changes are expected to send a needed jolt to the plaza. But Smith and Martinez aren't looking back. "It was a smart move," Smith said. What a Deal at 130-E S. Mountain Ave., Upland, is open 10 a.m. to 7 p.m. Monday to Thursday; 10 a.m. to 9 p.m. Friday and Saturday; and noon to 6 p.m. Sunday. For more information, call (909) 931-3331. Font Resize Photos from the IVDB   Photos from readers Ask your own question >> | | | | | For more local Southern California News: Copyright ©2008 Los Angeles Newspaper group 