    Tim McGraw’s Pastoral Namesake Tim McGraw performs onstage during the 42nd Annual Academy Of Country Music Awards held at the MGM Grand Garden Arena on May 15, 2007 in Las Vegas, Nevada. Photo courtesy of the ACM. Oct. 7, 2008 — Tim McGraw’s Greatest Hits 3 is being released Tuesday, and while he hasn’t done a rigorous campaign to promote it, he has found his name attached to another campaign — that of Republican vice presidential hopeful Sarah Palin. Not that Tim’s doing anything to support her — he’s actually a Democrat — but Tim McGraw found his name in a CNN story about Sarah’s former pastor at the Wasilla Assembly of God. The reverend is not a celebrity impersonator, but he does have the same name as the more famous country singer. And he’s not alone — a quick cruise around the Internet shows numerous people who share the name of a country music figure have made their way into the news in one form or another. That includes baseball players, professors, people in the arts and even two members of the NFL’s Nashville-based Tennessee Titans. Following are some of the alternative identities for country’s finest: • Alan Jackson: Los Angeles prosecutor in the Phil Spector murder case. • Keith Urban: New Jersey painter. • Kenny Rogers: current pitcher for the Detroit Tigers. • Jerry Reed: former pitcher for the Cleveland Indians. • Luke Bryan: Australian baseball player. • Tony Brown (producer for Lee Ann Womack and Heidi Newfield): defensive lineman for the Tennessee Titans. • David Ball: also a Titans lineman. • Blake Shelton: basketball player in the United Kingdom. • Jack Greene: professor at Boston’s Northeastern University. • John Rich: artistic and managing director for Idaho theater company. • Chris Cagle: quarterback of a high-school football team in Hartland, Mich. • Jack Ingram: former NASCAR driver. • Josh Turner: race car driver in North Carolina. • Bill Anderson: economics professor in Maryland. • Keith Anderson: reporter in Edinburgh, Scotland. • Lynn Anderson: high-school volleyball coach Illinois. • John Anderson: several identities — former Republican presidential candidate and current coach of the Atlanta Thrashers hockey team. • Dana Williams, Diamond Rio: mayor of Park City, Utah. • Gene Johnson, Diamond Rio: North Carolina highway patrolman. • Randy Rogers, Randy Rogers Band: owner of Randy Rogers Auto Sales in Tuscaloosa, Ala. • Charlie Daniels: U.K. soccer player. • George Jones: member of the doo-wop group the Edsels. . | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | for on and and provide UK comparison services for , , , , , and © 2008 All right reserved. 