    | | | | | | Currently: 63° and Cloudy Forecast: Showers High: 72 Low: 50° Sponsored by Kenny Kent Toyota News search Web Search powered by YAHOO! SEARCH › › Rain on way but harvests behind schedule Gleaner staff Tuesday, October 7, 2008 Rain rain, come today. And it looks like it might, according to the National Weather Service based in Paducah, which is predicting an 80 to 90 percent chance of precipitation. The last time it rained, which was on Sept. 29, Henderson got about three-tenths of an inch, said Kelly Hooper, a meteorologist. Photo by Mike Lawrence Ellis Boucherie runs a combine through a 35-acre field of soybeans late Monday afternoon off of Rucker Road No. 2. The field, being farmed by Jim Embry is yielding 50 bushels per acre. STORY TOOLS More Gleaner News Even so, Henderson County Extension Agent Mike Smith said that wasn't enough to help local crops and landscapes. "It's dry and a little bit of moisture won't hurt us at all," he said. "There's no question about it -- pastures need it now." Smith said the only farmers who don't need rain right now are the ones harvesting downed corn. Those who just have landscaping should also water their lawns so as to prepare for what could be a dry winter. "If you don't water in the fall of the year and establish some sort of root development, and when we get into a dry winter, it really compounds things," he said. Hooper said he expects that Henderson could see a half inch of rain that falls slowly, which would be perfect for farmers. "A half inch over 12 hours is better than an inch in an hour, especially when you have ground this hard," he said. "(Otherwise) it's going to run off." Meanwhile, the harvesting of Kentucky's corn crop, already behind schedule because of planting delays last spring, now is being affected by stalks knocked over by high winds from the remnants of Hurricane Ike. "Farmers reported that corn lodging has caused losses and is slowing the harvest," the National Agricultural Statistics Services said Monday. As of Sunday, 60 percent of the corn had been harvested, down from the five-year average of 72 percent. Fifty-seven percent of the corn is rated in good or excellent condition. The soybean harvest is slightly behind schedule, with 18 percent of the crop harvested as of Sunday compared with the five-year average of 21 percent. Soybeans are rated 19 percent excellent, 29 percent good, 27 percent fair, 20 percent poor and 5 percent very poor. Yields are expected to be hurt by the ongoing drought. Winter wheat seeding is proceeding slowly as many farmers wait for rainfall to improve germination, and conditions are too dry for curing tobacco properly, prompting some farmers to apply moisture to bring tobacco to its proper moisture level. Pasture conditions are rated 80 percent poor or very poor, prompting producers to begin feeding hay to their livestock. Comments Post a comment (Requires free .) Comments are the sole responsibility of the person posting them. You agree not to post comments that are defamatory, obscene, abusive, threatening or an invasion of privacy. Violators may be banned. . Username: Password: ( ) Your Turn: Ten most e-mailed stories from Evansville courierpress.com: Scripps Interactive Newspapers Group © 2008 The E.W. Scripps Co. (updated) | (updated) 