      On FOX News CHANNEL: Breaking News >> HOT TOPICS Send news tip to FOXNews.com > Report: Courtney Love Has Secret Gastric Band Tuesday, October 07, 2008 Share: AP Feb. 8, 2007: Courtney Love with daughter Frances Bean Cobain Feb. 8, 2007: Courtney Love with daughter Frances Bean Cobain Super-skinny rocker Courtney Love has a secret gastric band, a "friend" reportedly told News of the World. The widow of Nirvana frontman Kurt Cobain had the operation two years ago, the tabloid says. At the time, she claimed on her blog that she was inspired by Oprah Winfrey, who used a slimming drink to get thin. A friend of Love, 44, told the News of the World: "Courtney keeps laughing to her friends and saying, "Everyone thinks I've had hypnosis but why bother with all that effort? All I did was check myself in and have a fat band fitted. "Courtney has always had problems with her appearance and is convinced she is ugly and fat. Two years ago she had a gastric band fitted at a surgery in Beverly Hills. Lots of doctors refused to do it as she was nowhere near obese, just a little overweight, but eventually she found one. And as soon as she had the operation the excess weight started to drop off her. Now she is just skin and bones and looks terrible." Last year, Love said on my MySpace blog she said: "I lost weight the hard way and people can't accept it. Whenever ANYONE loses weight by determination and grit, it's suspect. I got my inspiration from Oprah losing so much weight on Slim Fast, that's how I did it." But later, on stage in New York, she told her audience she "had to take care of my eating disorder." Share: Top Video Showbiz News ADVERTISEMENT The volleyball star is recovering at home after an injury forced her to leave Dancing with the Stars The pregnant singer turns 24 wearing Daisy Dukes and a fake tattoo at her costume bash The supermodel's ex denies he's the "pervert I've been painted to be" Check out the three fab looks Ms. Spears dons in her comeback clip set to air Friday A source says the pair are "taking it slow" as they rekindle their relationship with dates in L.A. and N.Y.C. FNC iMag top videos go green ADVERTISEMENT AP Wires Marketplace For FOXNews.com comments write to ; For FOX News Channel comments write to This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. © 2008 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. All market data delayed 20 minutes. 