    Sponsored by For quality conservatories, windows & doors at affordable prices Over 17,000 satisfied customers in the last 10 years enhanced by You need to have javascript enabled to view this page correctly Wednesday, 8th October 2008 Premium Article ! Your account has been frozen . For your available options click the below button. Premium Article ! To read this article in full you must have registered and have a Premium Content Subscription with the EP Leeds First & County site. Registered Article ! To read this article in full you must be registered with the site. Thackley in seventh heaven « Previous Next » Published Date: 08 October 2008 Thackley claimed a magnificent 7-2 home win over Arnold firing three goals in the first 10 minutes in the NCEL Premier clash. Chris Coy hit a quick-fire brace in the opening three minutes and there were also doubles for Kyle Shah and Martin Brissett. Richard Conway netted as well. Eccleshill were hammered 4-0 at home by high-flying Pickering. Quick-fire first-half goals from Craig Stephens and Paul Bedford helped Nostell MW to book their place in the second round of the FA Vase after a 3-1 replay success over Ashton Athletic. Will Ryder gave Athletic an early lead ahead of Welfare's double blast, Dave Nicholas sealing the win with a 72nd-minute penalty. The full article contains 123 words and appears in EP Leeds First & County newspaper. Page 1 of 1 Last Updated: 08 October 2008 8:32 AM Source: EP Leeds First & County Location: Leeds Bookmark: Comment on this Story In order to post comments you must or Delivery formats: Leeds United Football Rugby Other Sport Your Say Columnists More Non League Soccer Features Today's Vote Which make the best pets? Cats Dogs Featured Advertising control for popup window All rights reserved ©2008 Johnston Press Digital Publishing Sister Newspapers: This website and its associated newspaper adheres to the Press Complaints Commissions Code of Practice. If you have a complaint about editorial content which relates to inaccuracy or intrusion, then contact the Editor by clicking If you remain dissatisfied with the response provided then you can contact the PCC by clicking 