    Special Sections Vinings property topping agenda Published: 10/08/2008 By Ashley Hungerford Marietta Daily Journal Staff Writer MARIETTA - Cutting down traffic on a major thoroughfare and pedestrian accessibility were two reoccurring themes as the Cobb Planning Commission approved a mixed-use development in Vinings during Tuesday's marathon meeting. The Commission recommended, 4-1, to approve a rezoning application by D&A Investment Group and Pereira Management for a mixed-use development on Paces Ferry Road near Cumberland Parkway. Commissioner Bob Hovey dissented. The Board of Commissioners will decide on final approval at their zoning meeting on Oct. 21. The applicant's representative, Marietta zoning attorney John Moore, said the 10.5 acres is one of the last remaining undeveloped areas in Vinings. The property is currently zoned for an office park, but applicants want to construct a two-part development. The northern portion of the property is planned to have a 12-story senior living facility, a 22-story office tower and a residential tower with 200 for sale condominiums. Traffic would flow out of this portion onto Bert Adams Road, and then to Cumberland Parkway. The southern portion would have retail, restaurants and 72,000 square feet of office space. Traffic would flow to Paces Ferry Road. Moore said the developers envision the retail portion having a "European look" to it - "a wonderful place to come and have lunch." Moore said employees at neighboring office buildings, and guests at the Wyndham Gardens next door would have lunch options in walking distance, reducing the number of cars on Paces Ferry around lunch time. As presented to the Commission, Moore said there would be no vehicular access between the upper and lower section, only pedestrian access. Residents in the senior living facility and condominium tower could also walk down to the retail portion, he said. Attorney Jim Ney, representing the office towers to the proposed development's west, said his clients oppose the development. He said his clients "class A, well-rented office buildings," will be overwhelmed by the development, which he said is too dense. "It will loom over us," he said. "It's simply being crammed in there ... we think it's an absolute catastrophe." Ney said his clients would share the same access point onto Paces Ferry Road with the development, and he said he's concerned that traffic in the afternoon could make it difficult for people to get out of the complex. Ron Sifen, representing the Vinings Homeowners Associations, said he too was concerned about traffic and the density of the development. "The applicant is asking for everything, including the kitchen sink that could go on 10.5 acres," he said. And he said with the current housing market, the county doesn't need another couple of hundred units "dumped into the market." In his motion to recommend approval, Commissioner Tom McCleskey did cut some of the project's density. And because there isn't vehicular access between the projects two portions, he said not all of the traffic is "spilling out onto Paces Ferry." Due to economic conditions, McCleskey said the project should be built in phases - the senior living facility first, the retail/office on the southern portion second, and the condo/office on the northern portion last. "The economy will be a big part of this project being built," he said. "This is a very complicated project, and it's a very, very long way from being built." ahungerford@mdjonline.com Rate this Article Comment on this Story Type your comment here...comments are reviewed before they are posted, and therefore they do not post immediately. Posted Comments No comments posted... Copyright © 2008 Marietta Daily Journal. All rights reserved. All other trademarks and Registered trademarks are property of their respective owners. 