    | | | | | | SEARCH: Latest Posts Categories ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) Favorite Links Archived Posts Mobile City Council to decide on football funds Posted by October 07, 2008 6:28 AM Categories: Mobile City Council members will decide today whether to spend $450,000 in municipal funds on the Gulf Coast Classic football game. Councilwoman Gina Gregory proposed cutting that amount, which was proposed by Mayor Sam Jones, to $225,000, part of a larger set of budget cuts she floated at a Monday meeting of the council's Finance Committee. But Councilman John Williams, who could be the key fourth vote, said he supported the mayor's plan. Williams said the game could grow into an economic asset along the lines of the GMAC Bowl or the Senior Bowl. "It deserves a chance," he said. Last year, the city gave $40,000 to the Gulf Coast Classic, which has been played in Mobile for the past 34 years. The council is scheduled to vote today on Jones' proposed 2008-09 budget, which totals $251.5 million and includes the tremendous increase in funding for the game. Supporters said that making the Classic an annual event between Southern University and Alabama State University would be a big improvement over past years, when the Classic had been merely an Alabama State home game against any one of several opponents. They also pledged that city contributions would decrease in future years. Opponents said it's just too much money when finances are tight, and it's unclear how much the changes might boost attendance. "What is difficult is we want to put that much more money into this game, and there's no way to prove it will have that kind of economic impact," Gregory said. Council President Reggie Copeland and Finance Committee Chairwoman Connie Hudson have also voiced reservations. Other council members have been largely supportive. It takes the votes of four council members to amend a proposed budget. Steve Harrelson, who is helping to organize the game, said $225,000 might kill the deal to expand the Classic. Gregory's proposal to halve the amount spent on the Classic was part of $1.15 million in reductions, including a cut of $313,288, or 10 percent, from the Mobile Bay Convention and Visitors Bureau and a cut of $175,000, or half, from the Bell Micro LPGA Classic golf tournament. But one sporting event would benefit from Gregory's proposal: She wants to give $175,000 to the Senior Bowl, which, she said, would be a one-time allocation requested by the all-star football game. Currently, the city gives no money to the Senior Bowl. Gregory would also put $225,000 into city reserves and distribute the remaining $747,000 to council members for projects in their districts ? about $107,000 apiece on top of the $50,000 already budgeted for those accounts. | | Share: | | | | | | COMMENTS (2) Posted by redwing10 on This game draws maybe 15,000 people and they are local,no way it generates 9 million dollars to the mobile economy. Inappropriate? Posted by working4u2 on But its footvall. That is an extremely good choice when comes down to cuts. The event is a complete waste of resources. Those resources need to be channeled in a new direction. That money will be needed to fund the additional services to the proposed newly annexed areas of the city. Whats $175,000 going to do to make anything different for the Senior Bowl? Looks like we have folks looking to spent excess money. Inappropriate? Welcome back, ! From Our Advertisers Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our . Please read our . apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. . © . All Rights Reserved. | 