    Wed 08 Oct 23:38:46 2008 Opportunity drives Smith south | | Related Articles Sponsored Links Oct 8, 2008 By Chris Matthews Livewire Auckland winger David Smith is returning to the Hurricanes next season and as tvnz.co.nz's Chris Matthews reports his transfer adds to a franchise with a lot going for it. 20 players are packing their bags and are heading to Super 14 franchises that promise more opportunity next year. One of the more high profile transfers is David Smith, returning to where he got his first taste of Super rugby action. In 2007 he began his apprenticeship in the capital as a wide eyed 21-year old among All Blacks such as Tana Umaga, Jerry Collins, Rodney So'oiala and Ma'a Nonu. Some experience for a shy Samoan boy. He has quickly proven though that his shyness is mere politeness and when he is on the field he is arguably the most explosive player in New Zealand rugby. The man with the most ordinary name is anything but and throughout Auckland's worst season in living memory his form has not faltered. So it was little surprise that the Hurricanes came calling once again although Smith admits that leaving Auckland was a difficult decision. "Yeah I mean it was hard for me to leave Auckland," Smith said. "I always wanted to play for Auckland and the Blues but at the end of the day we are always going to go when you can get more game time." "I didn't get many games for the Blues this year and there is opportunity if I go down there." "There is just going to be me and Hosea Gear and they're a lot of wingers in Auckland. You know there is Joe Rocokoko, Rudi Wolf and Anthony Tuitavake." The emergence of Zac Guilford and Cory Jane in the Hurricanes franchise may mean a starting berth isn't a given for Smith but he understands that wingers in New Zealand are aplenty. "Yeah I mean at the end of the day there are too many wingers at the moment," Smith said. "Yeah but if you work hard at training and play hard hopefully I can get lot's of minutes." This is the sort of attitude that should see him pushing for higher honours and he readily concedes his main goal this year was to make the All Blacks Grand Slam tour. "Yeah that was the main focus this year was to try and perform well and make the end of year tour," Smith said. Auckland's sudden and dramatic demise has not helped his cause but given Wellington and Hawke's Bay strong campaigns the Hurricanes are sure to be a strong force in 2009 and Smith is excited by this prospect. "Yeah it's look like we are going to have a good team next year" Smith told tvnz.co.nz last Friday. "It's going to be young team but I think we have only lost Jerry Collins and Shannon Paku, so yeah we should go well." "But first I'm going to focus on what I need to do for Auckland because it isn't over yet." But unfortunately for Smith and Auckland it is over but the next chapter promises plenty. Source: ONE Sport Share rugby Headlines 