      Wed, Oct 08, 2008 |   Published: 10.08.2008 Iron Chef teams to test their mettle at TMY Tucson Citizen Kitchen Stadium comes to Tucson Meet Yourself Friday, as a cook-off modeled after the the popular "Iron Chef" television show will have amateur and professional chefs whipping up masterpieces from mystery ingredients. The event, which begins at 4 p.m. on the food stage, will feature three contests of three-person teams representing the culinary arts programs of Pima Community College and Amphitheater, Canyon del Oro, Catalina Magnet and Flowing Wells high schools, while the professional installment will have Albert Hall, chef-owner of Acacia, squaring off against Chef Bruce Sy of The Art Institute of Tucson. The event is the brainchild of Mia Hansen, program coordinator for the festival, and chef Elizabeth Mikesell of PCCs culinary arts program. Mikesell says the event is an ideal way to fulfill the mission of the American Culinary Federation's Chef & Child Foundation. The foundation seeks to educate children and families about proper nutrition through community-based initiatives to fight childhood hunger, malnutrition and obesity. Mikesell is national chair of the Chef & Child Foundation. "We saw the contest as a really great way of doing a nutritionally sound 'Iron Chef' competition, and Tucson Meet Yourself is the perfect place to showcase international food," Mikesell says. Each team will have a "market basket" of common ingredients and a mystery ingredient that must be incorporated in both of its dishes - an appetizer or salad and an entree, Hansen says. In addition, the school teams were instructed to choose an ethnic theme that reflects their cultural heritage, she says. Each team will have 45 minutes to cook and present its meal to judges. Heidi Jaenicke, executive chef of the three-person Flowing Wells team, says her team's creative flair is a blessing and curse for the competition. "We're all really creative, but sometimes our ideas clash because we all want to do something special, so we'll have to really focus and work together," says Jaenicke, a senior. The Flowing Wells team members and their culinary arts classmates have been buzzing with enthusiasm since they found out about the opportunity to compete in the event, says culinary arts teacher Yvonne Bernino. "They all watch 'Iron Chef' and all the cooking shows, so they were so excited to hear they were going to be able to do this," she says. "They're going to have a blast." Comments on this Story 1. Comment by Ruby S. (rubysky) — October 7,2008 @ 4:47PM Sounds like fun. Leave a Comment You need to be logged in to comment Photos & images Click Photo to Enlarge VALCAÑEZ/Tucson Citizen The Flowing Wells High School culinary team (from left, slicing pizzas in their culinary arts class), Heidi Jaenicke, Sergio Chavira and Jackie Holguin, takes on a team from Catalina High Magnet School at 4 p.m. Friday at Tucson Meet Yourself. additional information Tucson Meet Yourself " Official Web site: " Read all about the 35th Tucson Meet Yourself, Thursday in Calendar, " Tucson Meet Yourself vendors offer the flavors of the world, Friday in Weekend Plus, SCHEDULE (On the Food Stage at at Tucson Meet Yourself, El Presidio Park, 115 N. Church Ave.) 4 p.m.: Flowing Wells High School Asian cuisine vs. Catalina High Magnet School Southwest Guys team 5:30: Amphi High School German cuisine vs. Pima Community College Southwest cuisine 7: East Meets West: Tucson Iron Chef Albert Hall of Acacia vs. Chinese Master Chef Bill Sy of The Art Institute of Tucson 8:30: Catalina High "InovAsian" vs. Canyon Del Oro High School boys Story Tools More by Tom Stauffer Most Commented Stories Today | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Partners: · · · | Copyright © 2008 Tucson Citizen All Rights Reserved. . 