    USER NAME PASSWORD Wednesday October 8, 2008 New Glasgow, NS 7°C Wind: 28 Km/h Humidity: 87 % Main Menu Photo Galleries EVENT CALENDAR October 2008 S M T W T F S 1 2 3 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 16 17 22 23 24 26 27 28 29 30 31 | HIGHWAY WEB CAMS AUDIO SLIDESHOWS LOCAL NEWS | | | Last updated at 11:38 PM on 07/10/08 Liberals coming to terms with Dion-May deal Strategic voting party of Liberal Party plan SEAN KELLY The News NEW GLASGOW – Gazing out the window of the Glasgow Square's green room, a Liberal Party supporter remarked it looked as though the building was adrift along the East River. That was no doubt the plan when Glasgow Square was built. And, with a boatload of Liberals in the room – some to see Senator Jim Cowan speak and others to ask Green Party Leader Elizabeth May a question – it's easy to imagine many feel they're drifting along in this election, drifting along in a boat driven by a candidate from another party. When the Green-Grit deal between leader Stephane Dion and May was announced, supporters in this riding were hurt. But that was 18 months ago. Last night, it became apparent that Liberals in Central Nova aren't exactly jumping ship to hoist another captain's flag. They're doing their best to put the traditional and divisive nature of politics aside. Susan Green, who campaigned for the Liberals in 2004, said she was upset by the decision and it took her a while to come around to it. "My initial reaction: was I being disenfranchised that I couldn't vote for a Liberal. I felt, how could somebody take away my right to vote." It was a natural reaction. After all, Green supported Dion in his longshot bid for the Liberal leadership. There was a lot of hurt, actually. People called her. She considered running herself. Again, that was 18 months ago. "But now, I can honestly say that I'm 100 per cent convinced that it was the right decision to make – and I would be lucky to have (May) as the member of parliament for this riding." The host of the event, Ben MacLean, remembers when the deal happened as well. Easily the youngest party supporter in the room, he said he doesn't feel like Liberals are losing out in this election. "When it was first announced, (the deal, that is) I heard someone actually say, ‘Elizabeth may but Peter will.’ And now, it's Elizabeth just might." And as others said throughout the evening, these two parties have decided to get along. "I think it's really great for our democracy," MacLean said. Derek Wells, the president of the Nova Scotia Liberal Party was on hand last night. Strategic voting is very much a part of politics these days, he says. The Liberals' primary goal in this election is to form government. And if it means electing a Green here, that works. Alternately, if it means electing an NDP in another riding to achieve the same effect, so be it. Even if it doesn't turn out the way everyone there was hoping, there's always next time. May said last night, she expects to face a Liberal in the next federal election. 08/10/08 Comments: This Conversation is Semi-Moderated. What does moderation mean? The News is committed to encouraging intelligent discourse among our readers and to creating a forum where diverse views and opinions on a wide range of topics can be aired. The forum you are in now is a result of our continuing efforts to facilitate a dynamic online conversation among our readers. This is a semi-moderated or reactively moderated conversation. Once a reader follows the steps to register and submit his or her comment it goes directly to the website. A comment may be edited or deleted for reasons of content or language. All readers wishing to join a conversation must first sign in and agree to the , which explain the rules of acceptable content. ( ) voting ABC from Central Nova writes: If 30,000 people did not vote Liberal last federal election, what makes the Liberals think we are going to vote Liberal this time? This isn't a non agression pact its the same package with a different wrapper. Voting Green helps elect Harper. Posted 07/10/2008 at 11:51 PM | | ALERT US ABOUT THIS COMMENT Please let us know if this reader's comment breaks the rules explained in the and is obscene, abusive, threatening, unlawful, harassing, defamatory, profane or racially offensive by selecting the appropriate option to describe the problem. Do not use this to complain about comments that don't break the rules, for example those comments that you disagree with or contain spelling errors or multiple postings. Comment is inflammatory Comment is offensive Comment is advertising/spam voting New Democrat from NS writes: As planned by Dion and May a handful of Greens are going to vote Liberal in other ridings and just as Steven Harper said they would. Dion and May denied this. In return the Liberals are looking for 8000 New Democrats to vote for a Liberal-Green alliance in Central Nova. That's ambitious. Posted 08/10/2008 at 12:18 AM | | ALERT US ABOUT THIS COMMENT Please let us know if this reader's comment breaks the rules explained in the and is obscene, abusive, threatening, unlawful, harassing, defamatory, profane or racially offensive by selecting the appropriate option to describe the problem. Do not use this to complain about comments that don't break the rules, for example those comments that you disagree with or contain spelling errors or multiple postings. Comment is inflammatory Comment is offensive Comment is advertising/spam arthur sinclair from westville, nova scotia writes: It is amazing to live in this area and to see how people here are not willing to take a chance. When I served a number of years on the Pictou County Community Futures Committe on fact which came up was that the population of this area never increases due to the fact people have to move elsewhere to obtain a future . WE are taken forgranted that we will vote a certain way and thusly sell ourseves short. Remember when Brian Mulroney ran here. Peter`s father gave up his seat now it is time for Peter to give up his seat for Elizabeth May. Let us send Elizabeth and a message to Ottawa that we are still here and we want what is due to this area. Posted 08/10/2008 at 4:49 AM | | ALERT US ABOUT THIS COMMENT Please let us know if this reader's comment breaks the rules explained in the and is obscene, abusive, threatening, unlawful, harassing, defamatory, profane or racially offensive by selecting the appropriate option to describe the problem. Do not use this to complain about comments that don't break the rules, for example those comments that you disagree with or contain spelling errors or multiple postings. Comment is inflammatory Comment is offensive Comment is advertising/spam Sebastian Ronin from Nova Scotia writes: Come October 14th some of us armchair electoral strategists will be proven right, and some of us will be proven wrong. Since Day One, when the deal was announced, I have maintained that it amounted to electoral theft. No amount of dodging and sprucing it up 18 months later as per some of the quotes in this article, alter that. Also since Day One of this deal I have maintained that the payback for Ms. May will be the Ministry of the Environment should the Libs form government. Should the Libs form a minority government (highly unlikely) yet Ms. May lose Central Nova (highly likely), then I suggest a safe riding will be found for her by the Libs at the first opportunity of a byelection. That she would have to cross over to the Libs is a foregone conclusion. Lastly, since Day One I have maintained that 'the deal' is a precursor to a Lib-Green merger. The events of the last 18 months, especially signals sent by both Libs and Greens during the campaign, only reinforce this position; they do not detract from it. Lastly, any Central Nova Lib vote for Ms. May detracts from the Dippers. I would imagine that the 10,000 disenfranchised Lib votes tend to be more orange or blue than they do green. If Mr. MacKay is to lose the riding it will be to Louise Lorefice, not to Elizabeth May. The Tory campaign memo dated October 7th and sent to Central Nova Tory supporters comfirms this. To see a copy of the memo please go here: http://www.nationalnewswatch.com/index.php?option=com_content&task=view&id=43076&Itemid=41 Posted 08/10/2008 at 6:40 AM | | ALERT US ABOUT THIS COMMENT Please let us know if this reader's comment breaks the rules explained in the and is obscene, abusive, threatening, unlawful, harassing, defamatory, profane or racially offensive by selecting the appropriate option to describe the problem. Do not use this to complain about comments that don't break the rules, for example those comments that you disagree with or contain spelling errors or multiple postings. Comment is inflammatory Comment is offensive Comment is advertising/spam Sebastian Ronin from Nova Scotia writes: arthur, BTW (and as an aside) I did respond this morning to your last post at 10:47 PM of yesterday's exchange re Maritime secession. Posted 08/10/2008 at 6:47 AM | | ALERT US ABOUT THIS COMMENT Please let us know if this reader's comment breaks the rules explained in the and is obscene, abusive, threatening, unlawful, harassing, defamatory, profane or racially offensive by selecting the appropriate option to describe the problem. Do not use this to complain about comments that don't break the rules, for example those comments that you disagree with or contain spelling errors or multiple postings. Comment is inflammatory Comment is offensive Comment is advertising/spam Sebastian Ronin from Nova Scotia writes: Addendum re Tory memo: Obviously, the memo has been leaked. It's up to you to determine the motive for the leak. The implication is clear enough, IMO: there is panic in MacKay's war room over the quiet, non-obtrusive, and away from the media door knocking campaign of Lorefice. Posted 08/10/2008 at 6:56 AM | | ALERT US ABOUT THIS COMMENT Please let us know if this reader's comment breaks the rules explained in the and is obscene, abusive, threatening, unlawful, harassing, defamatory, profane or racially offensive by selecting the appropriate option to describe the problem. Do not use this to complain about comments that don't break the rules, for example those comments that you disagree with or contain spelling errors or multiple postings. Comment is inflammatory Comment is offensive Comment is advertising/spam Abe MacIntosh from New Glasgow, Nova Scotia writes: In Canadian electoral history, the NDP have always had a core following of 15 - 20% of the population. After 50 years, they have not been able to increase that number. The NDP colluded with the CPC to cause the defeat of the Paul Martin government and gave us the Harper government. Once again, they are doing their best to give us another Conservative minority (until a few days ago it looked like a majority). The NDP, always quick to criticize, are unable to see the ideologic similarities between the CPC and US Republicans, and, like Ralph Nader, are willing to bite off their nose to spite their face. The strident posturing of the NDP is part of the reason we are in this mess. The NDP should consider a name change to the RNPC (The Ralph Nader Party of Canada). The ability to recognize that Elizabeth May is a key figure and is critical in the future of Canada just simply doesn't register with the NDP, and, as such, they hope to help re-elect Mr. MacKay, rather than face the reality that their core is at most 20% of the population and will likely never be higher. Posted 08/10/2008 at 6:57 AM | | ALERT US ABOUT THIS COMMENT Please let us know if this reader's comment breaks the rules explained in the and is obscene, abusive, threatening, unlawful, harassing, defamatory, profane or racially offensive by selecting the appropriate option to describe the problem. Do not use this to complain about comments that don't break the rules, for example those comments that you disagree with or contain spelling errors or multiple postings. Comment is inflammatory Comment is offensive Comment is advertising/spam Sebastian Ronin from Nova Scotia writes: Abe MacIntosh re 'The ability to recognize that Elizabeth May is a key figure and is critical in the future of Canada just simply doesn't register with the NDP, and, as such, they hope to help re-elect Mr. MacKay, rather than face the reality that their core is at most 20% of the population and will likely never be higher.' 1. I think you may be likely smoking some Green policy proposals if you believe that Ms. May is a 'key figure' in the future of Canada, and; 2. yes, the Dippers will be held to 20% just as the Greens are spinning (and will continue to spin) their wheels to get beyond 10%, ergo the Lib-Green merger. Posted 08/10/2008 at 7:09 AM | | ALERT US ABOUT THIS COMMENT Please let us know if this reader's comment breaks the rules explained in the and is obscene, abusive, threatening, unlawful, harassing, defamatory, profane or racially offensive by selecting the appropriate option to describe the problem. Do not use this to complain about comments that don't break the rules, for example those comments that you disagree with or contain spelling errors or multiple postings. Comment is inflammatory Comment is offensive Comment is advertising/spam Abe MacIntosh from New Glasgow, Nova Scotia writes: Mr. Ronin. This is not about party politics. It is about the betterment of Canada. Much as I have never been a fan of NDP policies, I would still rather have an NDP government than a CPC government. The 20% ceiling is a reality. We are stuck in a rut in Canada and when the Reform Party hijacked the PCs, the conservatives in the country had a single voice, however, this voice had shifted far right from the gently centre right voice of the PCs. The CPC policies do not resonate with many disillusioned former PCs. Ms. May would like to change the way we do politics in this country and I am all for that. One of her many ideas is proportional representation. Her clear voice is needed in parliament. I have never voted other than Liberal in my life (and I've been voting since 1968 without missing an election). Mr. Harper, Mr. Dion and Mr. Layton are all afraid of her, but Mr. Dion also respects her. Mr Dion, looking at reality felt that her voice in parliament would be infinitely superior to Mr. MacKay's. If Mr. Layton were running in this riding, given the choice of voting for Mr. Layton or splitting the vote and electing Mr. MacKay, I would without hesitation vote for Mr. Layton. It is time for the non CPC parties to realize that unless they act as a single unit for at least one election, we will likely get repeated CPC governments. There is no hope of the NDP winning this riding. We have a unique opportunity in this riding to elect a party leader and at the same time send a message to Mr. Harper, but, due to petty bickering, we are in danger of squandering this opportunity. For all her qualities, Ms. Lorefice is not a party leader, and, her voice in Ottawa will be minimal. Even if Ms. May is the only Green elected and has no voice in parliament, she will be heard. As party leader Ms. May will at all times be interviewed for her opinions and she will be one more voice criticizing Mr. Harper. Her views are not radically different from the Liberal or NDP views. We are talking semantics here, not a dichotomy of ideas such as exist between the Liberal, NDP and Greens, vs the CPC. Electing a CPC government is anathema to 65% of Canadians, yet, the NDP insist on battling for their unchanging ceiling of 20%. I respect their position, but, petty politics is clouding the bigger picture. We NEED Ms. May in Ottawa. Posted 08/10/2008 at 7:44 AM | | ALERT US ABOUT THIS COMMENT Please let us know if this reader's comment breaks the rules explained in the and is obscene, abusive, threatening, unlawful, harassing, defamatory, profane or racially offensive by selecting the appropriate option to describe the problem. Do not use this to complain about comments that don't break the rules, for example those comments that you disagree with or contain spelling errors or multiple postings. Comment is inflammatory Comment is offensive Comment is advertising/spam Sebastian Ronin from Nova Scotia writes: Abe MacIntosh: It would seem to me that we tend to agree on the 'meta-situation.' Where we disagree is on the political motives behind the decisions being made within that meta-situation, e.g. 'Mr Dion, looking at reality felt that her voice in parliament would be infinitely superior to Mr. MacKay's.' as opposed my more crass perspective of a spot being greased for Ms. May inside the Lib tent. Re 'Ms. Lorefice is not a party leader, and, her voice in Ottawa will be minimal.' Yes, but no one is asking her to be a party leader and, yes, her voice will be minimal, but so will the other Maritime non-Con voices sent to Parliament. Re 'Electing a CPC government is anathema to 65% of Canadians.' Yes, as was electing a Lib majority with 35% anathema to 65% of Canadians. Until changed, such are the rules of the game. Like it or not, the Right, with all factions holding their noses, did something about their situation. It is now the Left that cannot get beyond the vanity of their splintered political self-importance. Divide and conquer is delivered on a silver platter by one's adversaries. And one wonders where the lack of political wisdom on the Left actually begins. Posted 08/10/2008 at 8:03 AM | | ALERT US ABOUT THIS COMMENT Please let us know if this reader's comment breaks the rules explained in the and is obscene, abusive, threatening, unlawful, harassing, defamatory, profane or racially offensive by selecting the appropriate option to describe the problem. Do not use this to complain about comments that don't break the rules, for example those comments that you disagree with or contain spelling errors or multiple postings. Comment is inflammatory Comment is offensive Comment is advertising/spam NOTE The management of this site emphasizes that it is in no way liable for persons, physical or legal, who are hosted here. Moreover, the managers of this site may not be held liable for errors and omissions that may slip into the information displayed in these reader comments. Everyone who submits a comment should read, understand and agree to the for this section. Post a comment: First Name: * Last Name: City/Town: Province: * Email: * Use of an invalid email address may result in removal of the comment. Your email address will not be publicized. Comments: * I have read and agree to the Remember me? Check here to receive email updates on contests, promotions, and other important information from The News. Recent local news : 07/10/08 11:38 PM 07/10/08 11:38 PM 07/10/08 11:38 PM 07/10/08 11:38 PM 07/10/08 11:38 PM 07/10/08 11:38 PM 07/10/08 11:38 PM 07/10/08 11:38 PM Past local news : MEET THE FEDERAL CANDIDATES NEW GLASGOW MAYORAL CANDIDATES PICTOU MAYORAL CANDIDATES TRENTON MAYORAL CANDIDATES WESTVILLE MAYORAL CANDIDATES READER POLL Are you worried about your investments? Ha! Investments, what investments? No, I'm in it for the long haul I'm very worried | The News | E-Reporter Share your video, audio and photos with the world! Recipe of the day Butternut Squash Pie Winter squash is not only for savoury dishes. Here,... Quick Links Love Sudoku? Test your brain with our interactive game today. Daily Horoscope, Daily Star Charts, Sun Sign Personality Traits, Love Meter and more ... Atlantic Canada Lottery Results, recent and past winning numbers, next draw information and drawing schedules. Sports scores and stats. FREE online classifieds. Movie showtimes and information. Entertainment news. TOP 10 ARTICLES | Money Sign up for our FREE online daily news service. Your up to the minute business information source. Email: QUOTES Search: Ticker Name by INVESTOR INFO by Downloads Explore Nova Scotia's Northumberland Coast. 2MB Celebrating Pictou County's entrepreneurial spirit. 1MB Advertise Online Advertising Manager Advertsing Representative Advertsing Representative Advertsing Representative The News A division of Transcontinental Media Inc. 352 East River Road - P.O. Box 159 - New Glasgow - Pictou County - Nova Scotia - B2H 5E2 Contents of this website are copyright © The News Northern Nova Scotia, New Glasgow, Pictou, Westville, Trenton, Stellarton, Pictou County. This site is part of the Transcontinental Media Network Search our newspapers: Daily Newspapers: Nova Scotia: ; ; ; . Prince Edward Island: ; . Newfoundland & Labrador: ; . Saskatchewan: ; . Weeklies and Specialty Publications: Nova Scotia: ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; New Brunswick: ; . Newfoundland & Labrador: ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; . Saskatchewan: . Consumer Magazines: ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; . Services: ; 