    Search Rookie NFL coaches starting strong Updated | Comment | Recommend | | | NFL WEEK 6 Power rankings: NFL Replay: Four Downs: Photo gallery: Upon Further Review: Weekly picks: The Coin Flip: The Huddle blog: By Jeff Zilgitt, USA TODAY A new coach brings optimism. But August optimism doesn't always translate into October success in the NFL. Through Week 5, the Washington Redskins' Jim Zorn, the Atlanta Falcons' Mike Smith, the Miami Dolphins' Tony Sparano and the Baltimore Ravens' John Harbaugh are a combined 11-7 (.611). Last season's five first-time head coaches had a .416 winning percentage after Week 5. All four entered the 2008 season with no NFL head coaching experience. Only Smith had been a coordinator in the NFL. Each coach brings different offensive and defensive schemes, but they share a path to success by connecting with players and holding them accountable. They share another common thread. All four were assistants on winning teams — Zorn, 55, with the Seattle Seahawks' Mike Holmgren; Harbaugh, 46, with the Philadelphia Eagles' Andy Reid; Smith, 49, with the Jacksonville Jaguars' Jack Del Rio and former Ravens coach Brian Billick; and Sparano, who turns 47 today, with former Dallas Cowboys coach Bill Parcells. •In Washington, quarterback has prospered in Zorn's version of the West Coast offense, which in turn has made running back , the NFL's No. 2 rusher, a valuable commodity again. On Sunday, the Redskins (4-1) defeated the Eagles in Philadelphia 23-17 after falling behind 14-0. "We're getting good response because our guys are executing," Zorn said. •In Atlanta, Smith is winning with the league's No. 2 rushing attack, led by , who leads the league in rushing with 543 yards. •In Miami, the 2-2 Dolphins are a top-10 team on offense and defense. Their wins came against the New England Patriots and San Diego Chargers, last year's AFC Championship Game opponents. •In Baltimore, the 2-2 Ravens have lost consecutive games by a total of six points, including a 13-10 loss to the undefeated Tennessee Titans at home Sunday. While rookie quarterback has struggled at times, the Ravens rank No. 4 in rushing yards per game and first in defense. Posted Updated | | | To report corrections and clarifications, contact Reader Editor . For publication consideration in the newspaper, send comments to . Include name, phone number, city and state for verification. Guidelines: You share in the USA TODAY community, so please keep your comments smart and civil. Don't attack other readers personally, and keep your language decent. Use the "Report Abuse" button to make a difference. . • • • • • • • About USATODAY.com: | | | | | | | | News Your Way: | | | | | Partners: | | | Copyright 2008 USA TODAY, a division of 