      On FOX News CHANNEL: Breaking News >> HOT TOPICS Send news tip to FOXNews.com > Nicole Kidman: Tom Cruise Found Deeper Love With Katie Holmes Tuesday, October 07, 2008 Share: AP Katie Holmes Nicole Kidman found a deeper love with Keith Urban — and she thinks her ex-husband Tom Cruise found the same thing with Katie Holmes. "I didn't foresee it, that you can meet somebody who you have a deep and more profound love with," the actress — who divorced Tom Cruise in 2001 — tells November's Elle. "I don't mean to take away anything with Tom, but I would hope that he has the same thing — I know he has the same thing with Katie," Kidman adds. "You move into a stage where you're able to be a more fuller person in your relationship." She continues, "I want to be really careful with that because I don't want to take away from 11 years with that man that were really important. Really, for our kids — they were amidst a lot of love. It wasn't bad. And now we're amidst a more evolved love." And Kidman says she would still marry Tom all over again. "[Tom] taught me an enormous amount — as a girl into a woman. Absolutely, I would do it again." As for Urban, she says, "Keith gave me a life. He gave me a home." Share: Top Video Showbiz News ADVERTISEMENT The volleyball star is recovering at home after an injury forced her to leave Dancing with the Stars The pregnant singer turns 24 wearing Daisy Dukes and a fake tattoo at her costume bash The supermodel's ex denies he's the "pervert I've been painted to be" Check out the three fab looks Ms. Spears dons in her comeback clip set to air Friday A source says the pair are "taking it slow" as they rekindle their relationship with dates in L.A. and N.Y.C. FNC iMag top videos go green ADVERTISEMENT AP Wires Marketplace For FOXNews.com comments write to ; For FOX News Channel comments write to This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. © 2008 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. All market data delayed 20 minutes. 