    Other editions: | | Find it: | | | | | | Sponsored by: Your browserýs security settings are preventing some features from appearing. 'Skins finish sweep of River View, win ECOL By DEVIN SHULTZ • Staff Writer • October 7, 2008 WARSAW - Marcus Olinger brought teamwork, discipline and a diverse game plan to Coshocton when he took over as the boys soccer head coach in 2007. Today, Coshocton no longer can be called a doormat, but instead an East Central Ohio League champion. The Redskins scored a 4-2 win at nemesis River View on Monday night, sweeping the season series for the first time and claiming the ECOL crown outright. "We just worked really hard," Olinger said. "These guys put the time in and they deserve what they've accomplished." Having experienced the lows with the Redskins' program, senior Grant Hartley relishes just how much things have changed. "After our freshman and sophomore year, I didn't think it would be possible, but we're amazing and (Olinger) is amazing," Hartley said. "(Olinger) works us hard and makes us practice hard every day, and now I can't believe it. I'm speechless. I don't know what to say. I'm so happy right now. It's probably the happiest moment of my high school career." Sophomore teammate Jason Milliken was equally elated. "This is what we've been working for all year, one of our goals before the season," Milliken said. "It was great to beat River View twice, once on their home turf." Hartley and Milliken scored two of Coshocton's goals, while Thibault Lefebure and Lucas Dunlap had the others in helping the Redskins improve to 6-1-0 in the ECOL and 13-2-0 overall. The Redskins close out the regular season with a league game Thursday at Dover. Jared Asire and Scott Poland had the goals for River View, which led 2-1 early but couldn't make it stand. The Black Bears (4-3-0, 9-5-0), traditionally one of the power programs in the Eastern District, could have forged a tie atop the league standings had they won. "It's part of life," River View head coach Bornwell Sianjina. "Look at the stock market. Whoever thought it would be doing that? And that's what life is all about. Sometimes you run into bumps and you just have to smooth it out. "It just wasn't meant to be," Sianjina continued. "... You'd like to win title every single time, but there are challenges out there. We have been a target for quite some time." Still, Sianjina praised Olinger for the job he has done in turning around the Redskins. "Marcus has done a good job with that group, so you really can't take that away from them," Sianjina said. "The only thing you can do is tip your hat to them and I do that to them. They came out, they played, they didn't give up, they kept pushing." But River View did its fair share of pushing the issue. Though Lefebure booted a goal from roughly 30 yards out for a 1-0 Coshocton lead at 36:41, the Black Bears quickly rebounded on Asire's goal at 35:54. Anthony Bible penetrated the 18, then the ball went to Austin Dickerson, who set up Asire for the equalizer. Moments later, at 33:15, Scott Poland dribbled to the goal from 25 yards out and struck once he got close, putting the hosts on top 2-1. Coshocton keeper John Tignor wouldn't be beaten again, as the Redskins tweaked their scheme to get through the half, then discussed further adjustments at intermission. "We just tried to make adjustments at the half to be tighter with our marks because they were coming right down the middle at us," Olinger said. "We tried to adjust and pick up runners coming through." Meanwhile, defensive breakdowns for the Black Bears gave Coshocton the edge it needed. Hartley scored off a turnover with 2:17 left in the first half for a 2-2 tie at halftime, then Dunlap cashed in a turnover with 23:27 remaining in the game, which proved to be the game-winning tally. Both turnovers left River View keeper Chris Porch with little time to react and get into proper position. "It was great to see us battle through adversity and just keep pounding and just keep working and it pad off for us," Olinger said of the scores. Milliken provided insurance with 8:37 left, finishing off a short Coshocton flurry in front of the goal stemming from a corner kick. "You know what? We made some stupid mistakes that gave them a couple of goals, some easy goals, but that's life," Sianjina said of the breakdowns. "In life, if you don't make mistakes, there's something wrong. They say that perfection is divine, to err is human. That's life." The county rivals could potentially meet again in the Division II River View High School sectional final on Saturday, Oct. 18. The top-seeded Redskins first have to beat No. 5 West Holmes in one semifinal on Tuesday, Oct,. 14, while No. 2 River View is in the other semifinal Thursday, Oct. 16 against either No. 3 Cambridge or No. 4 John Glenn - to be determined Oct. 14. Ironically enough, River View plays both of those teams this week - home for the Bobcats on Thursday, then at the Muskies on Saturday - to conclude the regular season. For now, the Black Bears are focusing on Cambridge. "The tournament will soon be starting, but I'm not ready for that yet," Sianjina said. "I still have a season to finish." 740-295-3444 In your voice Read reactions to this story Add your comment (max {maxchars} characters) You must be logged in to leave a comment. | characters left {staffMark} {authorIcon} {authorHandle} wrote: {commentBody} {commentTimestamp} {recommendLink} {newpostLink} {replylink} {reportAbuseLink} Report item as: (required) Comment: (optional) Missing input fields. You must fill out the comment body in order to submit a comment. Comment too long. The comment you have entered is too long. Please limit your post to {maxchars} characters or less. More H.S. Sports headlines Get breaking news alerts from the Coshocton Tribune and Times Recorder sent to your phone. Enter your phone number: | | Powered by . Standard Messaging Rates or other charges apply. To Opt-out text STOP to 4INFO (44636). For more information text HELP to 4INFO (44636). Contact your carrier for more details. Partners: | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Copyright ©2008 Coshocton Tribune Use of this site signifies your agreement to the and , updated March 2007. 