    Welcome to TBO.com. Skip directly to: , , . | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | TBO.com - Tampa Bay Online > > City Of 'Mad Men' Lives On ADVERTISEMENT By SCOTT VOGEL The Washington Post Published: October 5, 2008 Becoming a dissolute ad executive from another era takes persistence and attention to detail. It is not merely a matter of scoring an early '60s Kingsbridge suit by John Taylor Ltd. of Tarrytown ($110 at Cheap Jack's in midtown Manhattan) and a skinny Harry Rothman tie ($45). You can't just vacuum up Lucky Strikes. No, if you want to be a piece of serious collateral damage in the phenomenon that is AMC's "Mad Men," which just won an Emmy for best drama series, you've got to get the lingo down. To know your dolls from your sweethearts, I mean. "A pack of Lucky Strikes, sweetheart," you say to the elderly woman behind the counter of a Times Square bodega, figuring she is well past doll age. Her face freezes behind the bifocals for a moment before thawing into skepticism. You'll get that $9 pack of cigarettes, but not until she has given you a head-to-toe: the hair gel as hard and shiny as patent leather, the French cuff shirt, the tie clip. You get all the way to the door before hearing the woman break into a nervous cackle. Until that last moment, you note, it was all very Edward Hopper. People come to "Mad Men" (which is actually filmed on the West Coast) for many reasons. For some, it's the ad agency at the show's heart, Sterling Cooper, where Camelot-era men fire zingers at warp speed, and the secretaries forage for husbands. For others, "Mad Men," with its almost orgiastic parade of twin sets and crinoline, is a kind of fashion porn. But Sterling Cooper is also a profoundly sad place. Haunted men booze it up in the morning, visit mistresses in the afternoon, chain-smoke the rest of the time; the women either put up with constant sexist epithets on the job or abandon them for lives of misery in suburbia. What do we love about this show again? Sterling Cooper is at 405 Madison Ave., an address that ... does not exist. But don't worry, soon it will be 11:30 and time for your first cocktail. Opting for the spot where Salvatore memorably flirted with a client in Episode 8, Season 1, you head for the bar at the Roosevelt Hotel. It is just as somber as a place dedicated to illicitness should be. Lunch time! Luckily the Oyster Bar at Grand Central Terminal is just a few blocks away. The red-checkered tablecloths are exactly as they were on the day Don and Roger overdid it. The restaurant employs three shuckers during lunch, as well as another guy who does only stews. Dozens of kinds of mollusks from two oceans are available on any given day. Come to think of it, maybe you'd like to take the rest of the day off and have a tryst with office siren/head secretary Joan in her modest Greenwich Village flat. No can do. Joan was long ago priced out of her place at 42 W. 12th, a street where the going price for a studio is two grand a month, and the Gaslight (at 116 MacDougal) has morphed into a tattoo parlor. Wait. Wasn't this the night you promised to take the wife to "Fiorello!" even though you hate musicals, just like Don? Oh, well, it'll be worth it to see the society ladies in their Michael Kors (the designer having been such a "Mad Men" nut that he based his fall collection on the show). Be advised, however, that the Broadhurst Theater is home no longer to a singing mayor but to a naked Harry Potter (Daniel Radcliffe in "Equus"). A pre-show dinner will be a must, and Sardi's, once the happening spot, is now just sort-of-happening-kind-of. Desperation: Maybe that's what it is. With each passing day, more and more desperation seems to grip New York. The city leaves you with the same feeling that "Mad Men" does, and, who knows, maybe that's the real reason the show speaks to us so compellingly. It all makes you want to scare up a copy of "Meditations in an Emergency," as Don did, and seek out a quiet spot for mulling over Frank O'Hara's poetry: Now I am quietly waiting for the catastrophe of my personality to seem beautiful again, and interesting, and modern. IF YOU GO STAYING THERE: With the average price of a room now hovering at about $350 a night, booking Manhattan hotel rooms is not for the faint of heart. We found rooms at the Roosevelt Hotel (45 E. 45th St., 888-833-3969, ) for as low as $195 a night, although you could easily pay twice that or more during busy periods. One new budget option is the Jane Hotel (113 Jane St., 212-924-6700, ) in the West Village, where an unbelievably small room (50 square feet) with one single bed (shared bath down the hall) goes for $99. EATING/DRINKING THERE: Just off the Roosevelt's glittering lobby, the Madison Club Lounge is great for a pre-show drink or late-night cocktail. Not far away is the Oyster Bar in Grand Central Terminal (212-490-6650), where a platter of eight oysters on the half shell goes for about $18 (depending on the market) and a pint of Blue Point lager is $6.50. Reservations are strongly recommended at Sardi's (234 W. 44th St., 212-221-8440), especially for pretheater dining. They've been serving the cannelloni au gratin ($25.75) - a crepe stuffed with beef, veal and pork and topped with a tomato cream sauce - for decades. P.J. Clarke's has three locations ( ). I visited the original at 915 Third Ave. (212-317-1616) and had a great corned beef Reuben ($13) with a cone of shoestring fries ($4.30). In Greenwich Village, the Esperanto Cafe (114 MacDougal St.) is open 24 hours and makes for a great breakfast spot. Grab a fresh cherry Danish ($3) and a window seat for a glimpse of what remains of la vie de boheme. Just across the street is Cafe Wha? (115 MacDougal St., 212-254-3706), a nightclub that dates to the '50s and was once a Bob Dylan haunt. WHAT TO DO : In addition to bars and restaurants, New York has no shortage of thrift shops and vintage stores. Cheap Jack's (303 Fifth Ave., 212-777-9564) is convenient to Times Square and other tourist attractions. Women in the market for something new but "Mad Men"-inspired can visit the flagship Michael Kors boutique on the Upper East Side (974 Madison Ave., 212-452-4685) or any of several department stores that carry the designer's line. Through Feb. 22, Daniel Radcliffe stars in "Equus" at the Broadhurst Theater (235 W. 44th St., 212-239-6200). And the ghosts of the Stork Club tread lightly at tiny Paley Park (3 E. 53rd St.), where a waterfall bubbles amid the skyscraper bustle of midtown. INFORMATION: NYC & Company, . Loading Comments... ADVERTISEMENT Most Viewed Your Weather Please enable javascript or Community Calendar Also In TBO.com Advertisement & TBO.com - Tampa Bay Online | | | | | | | | | See news developing? or call our Tipline at 1-800-348-WFLA | | | | | | | | | | IYP and SEO vendors: SEO by | 