    Primary Navigation Secondary Navigation Search: Spacecraft Reveals Stunning New Views of Mercury Staff Writer Tue Oct 7, 11:31 AM ET A NASA probe has begun beaming back stunning new images from its successful second flyby of Mercury, the planet closest to the sun. NASA's MESSENGER probe captured never-before-seen views of the Mercury during its . The spacecraft zipped past Mercury for the second time this year and used the planet's gravity to adjust its path as it continues en route to become the first probe to orbit the planet in March 2011. One new image shows large patterns of extending southward across much of the planet surface from a young, newly-imaged crater. The previously-imaged Kuiper crater and others craters also have similar webs of lines radiating outward. Another raw picture represents the ever taken of Mercury's surface, and came just 9 minutes after the spacecraft's closest approach to Mercury at 4:43 a.m. EDT (0845 GMT). Details include a large impact basin with an 83-mile (133-km) diameter, named Polygnotus for a Greek painter from the 5th century B.C. Yet a third first-time image came from MESSENGER's approach to the crescent-shaped Mercury, and is taken as part of a mosaic. Scientists hoped to collect nine image mosaics total in order to add up to 30 percent of never-before-seen regions of the planet's surface. The second Mercury flyby of Oct. 6 comes after a on Jan. 14, which looked at a different side of the planet. Launched in August 2004, MESSENGER - short for MErcury Surface, Space ENvironment, GEochemistry, and Ranging - is the first spacecraft in 33 years to greet Mercury up close since NASA 's earlier Mariner 10 mission of the 1970s. The new probe is slated for a third Mercury flyby in 2009 before finally settling into orbit on March 18, 2011. MESSENGER's $446 million mission is expected to spend about a year studying Mercury. Original Story: offers rich and compelling content about space science, travel and exploration as well as astronomy, technology, business news and more. The site boasts a variety of popular features including our and other , , , , and submitted by our users. , sign up for our and register for our today! RECOMMEND THIS STORY Recommend It: Average ( Not Rated ) AP AP AP AP LiveScience.com LiveScience.com AP AP Reuters AFP BBC - Tue Oct 7, 6:32 PM ET CNN - Mon Oct 6, 10:30 PM ET AP - Sun Oct 5, 5:42 PM ET Assignment Earth - Mon Oct 6, 11:51 AM ET A file NASA image that the MESSENGER spacecraft took of Mercury's full crescent in January.... Slideshow: Science Video News Search Related Searches: Yahoo! News Topic Pages In-depth coverage on topics such as and . Elsewhere on the Web Time.com: Time.com: ABC News: Yahoo! Tech Compare prices and get the latest how-to advice from Yahoo! Tech. ASSIGNMENT EARTH Explore the world's wonders and the battle to save them. Add headlines to your personalized My Yahoo! page Science - SPACE.com Space Shuttle/NASA Space/Astronomy NEWS ALERTS Get an alert when there are new stories about: NASA Kuiper Mariner 10 mission - - Search: Primary Navigation Copyright © 2008 . 