    Primary Navigation Secondary Navigation Search: Blasts near Iraq ministry as U.S. official visits Tue Oct 7, 4:52 AM ET BAGHDAD (Reuters) - Two blasts struck outside Iraq's Foreign Ministry Tuesday as visiting U.S. Deputy Secretary of State John Negroponte prepared to hold a press conference in the Green Zone compound nearby, Reuters reporters at the scene said. Police said two mortar rounds had landed in the area, wounding five civilians. One Reuters reporter said vehicles were ablaze. Another said two columns of smoke were visible. The Foreign Ministry building is adjacent to the fortified Green Zone government and diplomatic compound, where journalists were assembled for a news conference by Negroponte and Iraqi Foreign Minister Hoshiyar Zebari. The news conference began as scheduled shortly after, and Negroponte said progress in security in Iraq was "striking." Militants have fired rockets or mortar rounds at the Green Zone during visits by senior U.S. officials in the past. Negroponte, a former U.S. ambassador to Iraq, has been in the country for several days and has held meetings with senior Iraqi officials. Washington and Baghdad have been in intense negotiations on a new agreement to allow U.S. forces to remain in Iraq after a United Nations mandate expires at the end of this year. Both sides say the deal is close, although Negroponte said he was not involved in the talks. (Editing by Kevin Liffey) RECOMMEND THIS STORY Recommend It: Average ( Not Rated ) AP AP AP AP AP AP AP AP AP AP Reuters - 52 minutes ago BBC - 1 hour, 14 minutes ago BBC - 2 hours, 6 minutes ago BBC - 2 hours, 41 minutes ago News Video Iraq's Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki (R) meets U.S. Deputy Secretary of State John Negroponte (L)... News Search Related Searches: Elsewhere on the Web Time.com: McClatchy Newspapers: ABC News: Yahoo! Autos See the latest Land Rover vehicles on Yahoo! Autos. Add headlines to your personalized My Yahoo! page Iraq NEWS ALERTS Get an alert when there are new stories about: Iraq State John Negroponte Green Zone press conference news conference - - Search: Primary Navigation Copyright © 2008 Reuters Limited. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Reuters content is expressly prohibited without the prior written consent of Reuters. Reuters shall not be liable for any errors or delays in the content, or for any actions taken in reliance thereon. 