    Mobile Version: RSS: »BREAKING NEWS» Stocks tumble as Street worries about financials | | | | Member Login: Email: Password: Search: Local News Classified Web | | | | | | | | | Sites of Interest Iron Mountain OKs rezoning request By LINDA LOBECK, Staff Writer POSTED: October 7, 2008 | | | | Email: "Iron Mountain OKs rezoning request" * To: <--TO Email REQUIRED! * From: <--FROM Email REQUIRED! IRON MOUNTAIN - Properties along sections of Quinnesec, Norway, 6th and East Main streets were approved for rezoning at Monday's meeting of the Iron Mountain City Council. The Iron Mountain Planning Board had already held a public hearing and recommended the rezoning from Business 2 to Residential 2. A second public hearing was held Monday and the council unanimously approved the zoning change. During Monday's public hearing on the rezoning, Mike Steele of 204 6th St. addressed the council asking that they support this request for rezoning. "We are asking that the eight properties be rezoned from the general business to moderate density residential. They have never been business properties and have been incorrectly zoned for 15-plus years. Only two properties in this area that has been zoned business area general businesses," Steele said. He said that this request for rezoning is to "accurately reflect their historical, present and future use as single family residences. The homes pre-date the adjacent two commercial properties, not by weeks, months or years, but by decades, and the homeowners are asking that this misclassification be corrected by the Iron Mountain Planning Board." The homes are located at 601 Quinnesec St., 204 6th St., 206 6th St., 600 Norway St., 606 Norway St., 608 Norway St., 612 Norway St. and 618 Norway St. Steele added that these single-family residences are located in a residential neighborhood, front on residential streets and are surrounded by other single family homes. There are only two general business property owners in this area. The business properties located in the area include Mark's Auto Sales, DCH Home Health, and Washboard Coin Laundry. He noted that their homeowners' rights that have been lost through the incorrect zoning of the properties. Those lost rights include not having the benefit of a greenbelt buffer, vertical screen, solid fence or berm provided along the side and rear yard. Steele asked that the council review the rezoning regulations and that there may be other areas of the city needing attention. The council then discussed the compliance issues relating to requiring green belts or fences to separate businesses from residential properties. City Attorney Gerry Pirkola noted that they need to look at how it is applied in different situations and he will check into it. Peterson agreed that the city needs to look closer at the rest of the zoning in the city. At the meeting, the council also looked at the 2008-09 fee schedule for city services and approved the changes made. One of the additions made was the fees for local and non-local rentals of the Fire Safety House. The council agreed to allow the city manager and fire chief to be the authorized signatures on the rental contract. Other changes noted were the reduction in the fees charged for rental of the City Park pavilion, which are in effect Jan. 1, 2009. The cost will be $195 for holidays and weekend for Iron Mountain residents and $100 Monday through Thursday. This is a reduction from the current fee of $280. The costs for non residents on holidays or weekends is currently $365 and has been changed to $250. The cost will now be $125 to rent the pavilion Monday through Thursday for nonresidents. Council members felt that these changes would make the pavilion more affordable for residents to use. In other action, the council: - Approved the appointments of Barbara Kramer and Mike Nicometo to four year terms on the Downtown Development Authority. - Agreed to a hazardous materials service agreement with Veolia Environmental Services of Escanaba. This contract is so that the city has a standby agreement if there is a hazardous spill that they city can't handle. - Approved the low bid for winter sand from Morin Excavating for $4.70 a ton for 1,500 tons of sand. The bid will be reviewed by the public works director to see if it meets specifications. - Tabled action on an amendment to the engineering agreement for the West Lake Antoine Boat Launch. This item was tabled until the next meeting so more facts are available to the council. - Tabled action concerning a letter of understanding between the Michigan Department of Transportation, city of Iron Mountain, Breitung Township, Champion Inc. and Bacco. Changes had been made to the agreement that had been in the council packets Friday and the council members had received the revised agreement prior to the meeting. Pirkola was asked to go over the agreement before council action is taken. Linda Lobeck's e-mail address is . Member Comments View Comments: | No comments posted for this article. You must first login before you can comment. Existing Member Login Not a Member? * Your email address: <--Email REQUIRED! * Password: <--Password REQUIRED! Remember my email address. | | | | | | | | | The Daily News 215 E. Ludington, Iron Mountain, MI 49801 Toll Free: 1-800-743-2088 " 906-774-2772 " FAX: 906-774-1285 © 2008 . All rights reserved.| 