  Wednesday, October 8 | Texas' Oldest Newspaper: | | | | City reaches deal on 60 acres for new park The Daily News Published October 8, 2008 FRIENDSWOOD ý With parkland at a premium, city leaders have finalized a $2.5 million contract for 60 acres in Brazoria County. Friendswood Mayor David Smith said Tuesday the land near FM 528 and Mandale Road is but a stoneýs throw from the city limits, and the park could open in 12 to 18 months. The city plans four baseball fields and multiuse fields for the 30-acre first phase of the park. Four additional baseball parks and multiuse fields are planned for the remaining 30 acres when funds are available. Smith said the cityýs parks board has for years pitched the idea to the city council that the cityýs parks are full. ýTogether with that information from the park board and confirmation with staff from community services department, we have found that every sports league venue for kids is full, brimming over,ý Smith said. ýWe have Little League kids up well past their bedtimes because theyýve had to manage field space,ý Smith said. Councilman Mike Barker said the city couldnýt afford land for a park within the city limits. ýInside the city limits, the prices were astronomical,ý Barker said. ýWe were looking at $206,000 an acre to $65,000 an acre. The land we looked at, a lot of it was landlocked or misshaped. We wanted a larger parcel.ý Barker said the city expects to close on the land this summer. The price includes the water and sewer already there, has no trees needing to be cleared and will be graded. The price doesnýt include bleachers, backstops or fencing for the fields. ýWeýre thinking the sports groups could help fund that,ý Barker said. The city wonýt have to delete property from its tax roles, Barker said. ýWe need every penny of ad valorem tax since we have so little sales tax,ý he said. ýThirty of the acres will be turnkey, with restrooms, grass planted, irrigation and crushed rock for parking,ý Barker said. ýThe second 30 acres will only include drainage and grading.ý Barker said initial plans for the rectangular-shaped park were drawn on a paper napkin during breakfast. The deal almost collapsed after a Realtor somehow learned of the negotiations and tried to contract for the land, Barker said. There are some high-tension power lines on one end of the property, but that piece of the land would be used only for parking, Barker said. Smith said the council unanimously approved the purchase last week but ratified a corrected contract price Monday. | | | | © 2008 The Galveston County Daily News. All rights reserved. A Publication. 