    Primary Navigation Secondary Navigation Search: Obama has slim 2-point lead on McCain By John Whitesides, Political Correspondent Wed Oct 8, 1:08 AM ET NASHVILLE, Tennessee (Reuters) - Democratic presidential candidate Barack Obama has a slim 2-point lead on Republican rival John McCain in a tight White House race, according to a Reuters/ C-SPAN / Zogby poll released on Wednesday. Obama led McCain by 47 percent to 45 percent in the national poll, within the margin of error of 2.8 percentage points. Obama led by 3 points in Tuesday's poll. Four percent of voters said they were still undecided. The daily tracking poll, which will sample public opinion until the November 4 election, showed Obama leading among two crucial swing voting blocs. He has a 9-point advantage among independents and a 7-point edge among women. "This race is at equilibrium," pollster John Zogby said, adding neither candidate has been able to take full advantage of voter unhappiness with the country's direction. "We are seeing an electorate that is frustrated with Washington," he said. Obama has solidified his lead in most national polls in recent weeks as the Wall Street crisis focused attention on the economy, an area of strength for the Illinois senator . Zogby 's poll was taken Sunday through Tuesday, with the calls concluding before McCain and Obama tangled over taxes and the economic crisis during the second of their three scheduled debates on Tuesday in Nashville, Tennessee. Independent Ralph Nader and Libertarian Bob Barr each registered support from 1 percent of respondents in the poll. The rolling tracking poll surveyed 1,220 likely voters in the presidential election . In a tracking poll, the most recent day's results are added while the oldest day's results are dropped in an effort to track changing momentum. (Editing by Bill Trott) RECOMMEND THIS STORY Recommend It: Average ( Not Rated ) AP AP AP AP Politico AP AP Politico AP AP Reuters - Tue Oct 7, 10:04 PM ET AP - Tue Oct 7, 10:52 PM ET CNN - Tue Oct 7, 3:02 PM ET ABC News - Tue Oct 7, 11:30 AM ET Sponsored Links ( ) Suburban white guy helps elect first big city black mayor. www.EyesShuttightMcgee.com A real story of maddening strikes high taxes and clashing cultures. www.theabsenteeballot.com News Video Democratic presidential nominee Senator Barack Obama greets supporters during a campaign rally in Asheville, North... Related AP Politico News Search Related Searches: Elsewhere on the Web McClatchy Newspapers: Politico: ABC News: Yahoo! Games Take a break and play some hot, new games now! Add headlines to your personalized My Yahoo! page Race for '08 - John McCain Race for '08 - Barack Obama Elections Wires Elections 2008 NEWS ALERTS Get an alert when there are new stories about: Zogby Bob Barr Democratic presidential candidate Barack Obama pollster John Zogby Zogby poll - - Search: Primary Navigation Copyright © 2008 Reuters Limited. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Reuters content is expressly prohibited without the prior written consent of Reuters. Reuters shall not be liable for any errors or delays in the content, or for any actions taken in reliance thereon. 