          Web site of the Daily Star, Hammond, Louisiana :: Search Archives: Search Classifieds: STA rips Dunham | | | Text Size Staff Reports Wednesday, September 17, 2008 11:01 AM CDT GRINDING IT OUT—STA running back Zack Reed (8) cuts to the outside with Travis Gregory (32) running interference for him during Monday’s game at Dunham. The Falcons are ranked No. 7 in the newest LSWA Class 2A state rankings after waxing Dunham 42-20. Photo by Gary Lee BATON ROUGE—The St. Thomas Aquinas Falcons looked pretty awesome Monday night against Dunham. No. 1 in the state? Well, maybe not quite THAT awesome. But you might not get much of an argument from Dunham. The Falcons rolled to touchdowns on all six of their first-half possessions to take a 42-0 halftime lead, then coasted in the second half to score a 42-20 victory over the Tigers. STA (1-0) won its belated season opener in juggernaut fashion. The Falcons looked so good, in fact, that one Louisiana Sports Writers Association poll voter actually gave them a vote for No. 1 in the most recent rankings (see page 4B). Falcons coach John White, whose team is now ranked No. 7 in Class 2A, doesn’t know about all of that, but he was pretty happy with the way his team performed. ADVERTISEMENT “Offensively we executed very well,” White said. “Defensively we did a good job of tackling the football. We had no critical mistakes on either side of the ball. I was very pleased with the effort.” The Falcons chewed up the Tigers on the ground, rushing for 225 yards and averaging a beefy 8.0 yards per carry. Their first two drives both started inside their own 10-yard-line, but resulted in touchdown drives of 98 and 95 yards. Josh Reed capped the first with a 47-yard run, and he keyed the second with a 42-yard carry to set up Brandon Robertson’s 10-yard scoring spurt. The Falcons needed only nine snaps to complete those two scoring drives, covering 193 yards. The game was marred by an injury suffered by Dunham’s Hunter Kinchen that halted play for nearly a half hour in the first period as Kinchen received medical attention and was taken from the field by ambulance. Dunham coach Joey Thibodeaux said later that Kinchen had suffered some type of seizure and a concussion after a hard hit. St. Thomas went on to pad its lead when a turnover set up the Falcons at the Dunham 10, and they scored moments later on a two-yard touchdown plunge by Trey DiChristina late in the first period. Brandon Loria scored the first of his two touchdowns with a six-yard run in the second. Zach Reed got into the act next with the Falcons’ biggest play of the game, breaking free on a 70-yard punt return for a touchdown. Dunham then gave the Falcons a short field for their final touchdown drive, which covered 27 yards and was capped off by Loria’s one-yard scoring run. STA played its second and third-strings throughout the second half, allowing Dunham to get on the board with 20 second-half points. Dunham played two quarterbacks and it was actually backup Cody Davis who delivered the Tigers’ first points with a 30-yard touchdown pass to Dantrail Butler. Starter Tyler Moore came back to hurl TD passes of 29 yards to Aaron Johnson and 13 yards to Ethan Bowling in the fourth quarter. St. Thomas returns home Friday to host Riverside at 7 p.m. in Strawberry Stadium. Comment Blog - Note: All Comments Subject To Approval Comments are limited to 200 words or less. (optional) Current Word Count:   COMMENT RULES Comment posters are responsible for the opinions they express and the accuracy of the information they provide. We urge comment writers to treat this as a public forum where manners matter. We encourage a collegial, non-insulting tone. Be aware, in accordance with the Communications Decency Act and provisions upheld in judicial appeal, that you are responible for comments posted on this Web site. Do not post: Potentially libelous statements or damaging innuendo. Obscene, explicit, or racist language. Personal attacks, insults or threats. The use of another person's real name to disguise your identity. Comments unrelated to the story. If you believe that a commenter has not followed these guidelines, please use our online . Thank you for your comments! Copyright © 2008 Hammond Daily Star - www.hammondstar.com. All rights reserved. | Unathorized reproduction is prohibited. Read our 