    Primary Navigation Secondary Navigation Search: Iran opposes US-Iraq security deal By ALI AKBAR DAREINI, Associated Press Writer Tue Oct 7, 6:02 AM ET TEHRAN, Iran - A top Iranian military official on Tuesday urged Iraq to reject a proposed U.S.-Iraqi security deal, calling the agreement a "disgrace." Gen. Masoud Jazayeri's comments came as Iraq's parliamentary speaker arrived in Tehran to discuss the deal and as Iraq's foreign minister told reporters in Baghdad that Iraq and the U.S. were close to reaching an agreement, though obstacles remain. Iran , which is close to Shiite parties who dominate Iraq's government, has repeatedly expressed its opposition to any security deal that allows American forces to remain in neighboring Iraq. Tehran contends that the American presence is the cause of instability in Iraq and the region. "The Iraqi people won't be deceived by propaganda and the psychological warfare launched by the U.S. and its allies to pressure the Iraqi government to approve the security deal," Jazayeri, deputy chief of staff at the Iranian armed forces, said in a statement Tuesday. "Undoubtedly, the Iraqi leaders are careful of any mischief in this regard and won't allow Iraqi history be stained with such a disgrace," Jazayeri said. U.S. Ambassador to Iraq Ryan Crocker accused Iran last month of blocking the deal, saying a steady stream of public statements from clerical and political figures in Tehran make it clear that Iran is interfering in the bilateral negotiations between Iraq and the United States. On Tuesday, Iraqi parliament speaker Mahmoud al-Mashhadani told the Iranian news agency IRNA he would discuss of the proposed deal with Iranian officials during his Tehran visit. No reports are yet available on the details of the talks. Al-Mashhadani, a Sunni, arrived in Tehran Tuesday using an Iranian plane, a day after his Iraqi plane was initially turned away. Iranian officials said the type of the plane was the reason for not being granted permission to land in Tehran, but they did not elaborate. Washington and Baghdad have been negotiating for months on the agreement, which would set the terms for the future U.S. presence in Iraq for years to come. A main sticking point has been the issue of legal immunity for U.S. troops under Iraqi law. Iran's hard-line newspapers have said the U.S.-cooked deal would "turn Iraq into a full-fledged colony" and have urged Iraqis to oppose the proposed deal. Supporters of popular Iraqi Shiite cleric Muqtada al-Sadr — who is close to Iran — oppose the accord, arguing that U.S. forces should leave Iraq as soon as possible. Earlier this year, an Iraqi delegation visited Iran to convince Iranian officials to halt their alleged support for Sadr's Mahdi Army militia and urge Tehran not to publicly oppose the deal. RECOMMEND THIS STORY Recommend It: Average ( Not Rated ) AP AP AP AP AP AP AP AP AP AP Reuters - 52 minutes ago BBC - 1 hour, 13 minutes ago BBC - 2 hours, 6 minutes ago BBC - 2 hours, 41 minutes ago News Video News Search Related Searches: McClatchy News Blog Elsewhere on the Web Time.com: McClatchy Newspapers: ABC News: Yahoo! Autos See the latest Land Rover vehicles on Yahoo! Autos. Add headlines to your personalized My Yahoo! page Middle East News - AP Iraq World - Iran NEWS ALERTS Get an alert when there are new stories about: Iraq Mahmoud al-Mashhadani Iran Muqtada al-Sadr Iraq Ryan Crocker - - Search: Primary Navigation Copyright © 2008 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. The information contained in the AP News report may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed without the prior written authority of The Associated Press. 