  Text Size Ark. gas well explodes; sheriff says under control Associated Press - October 6, 2008 4:24 PM ET CENTER RIDGE, Ark. (AP) - The Conway County sheriff says a natural gas well near Center Ridge exploded today as workers apparently were trying to relieve pressure in the structure through a controlled burn. State emergency management says one worker among a crew of 6 was burned and taken to a hospital. Texas-based Southwestern Energy Company owns the well off Highway 124. The well continued to burn as firefighters and emergency workers monitored the fire. The sheriff said the burning well does not pose a health or environmental danger in the rural area where Southwestern Energy has been drilling in the underground Fayetteville Shale formation. A company spokesman did not immediately return a call for comment. Copyright 2008 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Northwest Arkansas News But when looking at the amendment, what exactly does it mean for Arkansans, and more importantly, where will the funds from the lottery go? Washington County deputies say they need leads in finding the man who robbed the First Federal Bank in Tontitown Tuesday morning. Some Springdale elementary students got a firsthand look at the mayoral candidates for their city Tuesday morning. A man and woman will spend more than 10 years in prison after pleading guilty to robbing a Madison County bank. The Oklahoma Highway Patrol says two Springdale women were killed when the van they were riding was hit by a semi while making a u-turn on Interstate 244. River Valley News City directors have decided to allow the city of Fort Smith to sell water to another group of water users. A Barling woman was killed early this morning in an accident on Interstate 40. Police in Lavaca are asking for the public's help in solving a rash of burglaries. Police believe the teens, who allegedly started a fire at the Crawford County Recreation Softball Complex on Kibler Road, are also responsible for a weekend fire at Gibson Crane. It's been called the Wal-Mart effect; when a new store goes in, other retailers want to be next door. Target is no different. All content © Copyright 2001 - 2008 WorldNow and KFSM. All Rights Reserved. For more information on this site, please read our and . 