    | | | | | | | | | | | | | | College search Web Search powered by YAHOO! SEARCH › › Application deadline announced for CSUCI From staff reports Sunday, October 5, 2008 STORY TOOLS More from Education: College The deadline for first-time freshmen to apply to CSU Channel Islands is Nov. 30. Budget constraints mean the Camarillo university won't be able to grow as much as it had hoped. The university will admit only 500 first-time freshmen in 2009, the same number it admitted in 2007, said Jane Sweetland, dean of enrollment. Last year, the university received 6,600 applications from high school seniors, an increase of 18 percent over the year before. CSUCI will host a senior day Oct. 11 to help local students with the admissions process. The Nov. 30 deadline does not apply to transfer students, graduate students or people applying for a teacher credential program. Discussions Discuss this article (Requires free .) Article discussions on this site are to support community debates of issues related to our stories and editorials. Discussions should not stray from the subject of the story or editorial. We do not allow the following: Posts that degrade others on the basis of gender, race, class, ethnicity, national origin, religion, sexual orientation or disability. Disparaging remarks, abusive language or obscene comments. Threats, whether obvious or veiled. We reserve the right to delete threads and/or ban users for these or other reasons we deem necessary. Opinions are the sole responsibility of the person posting them. You agree not to post comments that are off topic, defamatory, obscene, abusive, threatening or an invasion of privacy. Violators may be banned. . Username: Password: ( ) Your Turn: Loading videos... If you don't see them shortly, Most e-mailed from VenturaCountyStar.com Most viewed from VenturaCountyStar.com Most commented from VenturaCountyStar.com Real Estate / Rentals Cars Merchandise Scripps Interactive Newspapers Group © 2008 The E.W. Scripps Co. (updated) | (updated) 