 The incredible career of adventure cameraman Keith Partridge By Samantha Booth ADVENTURE filming is cameraman Keith Partridge's bread and butter. In the last 18 months, he has scaled an ice-covered mountain with ex-footballer Ian Wright, climbed down an Alaskan snow hole, conquered the terrifying north face of the Eiger, explored unchartered water caves in Papua New Guinea and hunted down the most venomous spiders, snakes and bugs in the Brazilian rainforest. He has coped with blizzards, tropical storms, temperatures well below zero, 1000ft climbs up sheer rock faces and the most basic camping conditions imaginable. And Keith has done it all with a camera in his hand and a pack full of photographic kit on his back. The results have been watched by millions around the world in such documentaries as The History of Climate Change, Venom Hunter, Extreme Dreams, Lost Land Of The Jaguar and even Top Gear. He has also worked on films such as the multi-award winning Touching The Void and Hollywood sci-fi flick Alien Vs Predator. But while viewers marvel at the amazing scenes of sunrises turning Arctic snows pink, the magical icy blue world hidden beneath glaciers and the insides of treacherous caves never before seen by man, it's not often anyone thinks about how these incredible pictures are brought to our television screens. But now we can meet the man behind the images, and unbelievably the 42-year-old shrugs off any suggestion that what he does for a living is dangerous. Keith, who lives in Lower Largo, Fife, with his wife, Andrea, and children, Jamie, four, and Erin, 16 months, said: "It isn't dangerous because we all know what we are doing and we take every safety precaution imaginable. "When we do these films, we have fantastic teams of experts and everything is checked and double checked so we eliminate as much risk as possible." But to the outside observer, Keith's work looks about as far removed from asafe office job as possible. In one picture of him filming for a documentary called Beckoning Silence: North Face Of The Eiger, in which the team recreated a tragic 1936 expedition on which four climbers died, Keith is balancing on the sheer rock face on the tips of his boots as he films the action. In another still of Keith working on the same programme, he is suspended thousands of feet up with one foot on a rock the size of a house brick for stability. And when he had finished a day's filming on the Eiger, Keith had to unclip himself from his safety rope, leaving himself momentarily unharnessed on the side of the mountain, before grabbing a line dangling from a waiting helicopter, the rotors of which are spinning just metres from the rock face. He was then plucked from the mountain and flown back to base camp while hanging below the chopper. Just another day in the office for Keith. When filming in Alaska, he found himself in a rubber dinghy just eight feet from a dozen 30-ton humpback whales as they rose to the surface. That night, his riverside camp was visited by three hungry grizzly bears. And on the same trip, he had to lower himself into an ice hole, known as a moulin. Up to 400ft deep, they can go all the way to the bottom of a glacier. Keith said: "Moulins are becoming more prevalent due to the melting of the ice caps. But nobody goes into them because they are pretty scary places. "They are formed by rivers of melted water flowing over the glacier and drilling holes in the ice whenever they find weak spots. They are really intimidating and are not places to muck about it in. But doing what I do is challenging and that's one of the reasons I love it. "And although we take as many precautions as possible, you never know what's going to happen. It has given me some amazing experiences. "One thing I have learned is that it's never over until it's over." One example was when Keith was in Venezuela last year filming Lost Land Of The Jaguar with adventurer Chris Backshall and British climber John Arran. They were there to scale a 1000ft rock face, which had never been climbed before. Hampered by overhanging rocks, even John struggled to find a route. It took the team four days to complete the climb, sleeping in cots suspended from the rock face. At one particularly difficult point, Steve lost his grip and was only saved from certain death by his safety ropes. And all the while Keith was one step ahead with his camera to catch all the action. Once at the top, they figured the hardest part of the trip was over. Back at base camp, they relaxed by playing football with the locals until their plane arrived. Keith said: "A cool pint of lager was almost in sight, but then the plane took a nose-dive into the runway. "We patched it up with gaffer tape and filled it full of our gear. "But we then had to wait for a second plane to pick us up as we weren't confident enough about the plane to fly any of the team in it. "The second plane had to race an incoming storm to pick us up and we only just made it out. "As I said, on these kind of adventures it really isn't over until it's over." KEITH didn't grow up dreaming of one day becoming an adventure cameraman. As a youngster in Norwich, he and his friend actually went into business at the tender ago of 14 running a mobile disco. He said: "I was into electronics and it was just really something to do. "But incredibly it really took off and a few years later we were making quite a success of it." Then one day Keith chanced upon a BBC advert for technical operators. He said: "The ad said if you were interested in this and that, then apply. "I seemed to tick all the boxes so I did and got accepted. It was great because they trained you in everything." In his spare time, Keith was a keen climber and, after a couple of years with the BBC, he started to wonder if he could earn a living by combining everything he had learned about filming with his love of mountains. He spotted another advert, this time placed by a guy looking for someone to go climbing in Iceland with him for a few weeks, and Keith's life was changed forever. Inspired by his trip, he left his secure job at the BBC to become a freelance adventure cameraman. In no time at all, he had his first commission, which just happened to be a documentary with legendary climber Chris Bonington in the Himalayas. When he returned, he got another job filming award-winning documentary The Edge about 100 years of Scottish mountaineering, and then Mountain Rescue: Inside Story for BBC1. In the next few years, the work just kept rolling in. Keith filmed on Don't Try This At Home, Wilderness Walks and The Face, which involved climbing in Jordan with the Bedouin, ice-climbing in America and scaling sea cliffs in the Outer Hebrides. He also worked on Mountain Men, K2, The Longest Journey and Arctic Challenge. He even filmed the stunt sequences in 2004's Hollywood movie Alien vs Predator. Keith said: "That was quite an evening when a fax arrived from 20th Century Fox in our home in Lower Largo." But maybe Keith's most prestigious filming job has been for the multi-award winning movie Touching The Void. Directed by Kevin MacDonald and based on the book by Joe Simpson, it told the true story of two young climbers, one of whom was Joe, and their perilous journey up the west face of Siula Grande in Peru. After three days of climbing, Joe fell, breaking several bones. His climbing partner, Simon Yates, attempted to get him back down the mountain by lowering him on ropes. But when Joe became stuck below an overhanging cliff, Simon assumed his friend was dead and made the agonising decision to cut the rope which connected them. Joe plunged into a crevasse but amazingly survived and, even more amazingly, was able to crawl back to their base camp, despite being in terrible pain. Touching The Void is the story of Joe and Simon's separate journeys down the mountain. The film, shot on Siula Grande as well as in France and Switzerland by Keith and his team in dreadful weather, won several awards, was nominated for even more and became a surprise box-office hit. Keith said: "We had a great time filming Touching The Void despite some challenging conditions, but nobody had any idea the film would be such a success. "Obviously, the audience knew Joe had survived because he was being interviewed in the film but, as the story unfolds, they just watch in horror as disaster after disaster unfolds. "What happens is almost impossible to believe and the film makes viewers wonder about what would they do in the same circumstances." On a more personal level, a career highlight for Keith came this summer when he filmed Blue Peter's expedition. He is not allowed to disclose the location as the film has yet to be shown. But what Keith can reveal is that his hard work won him a much-coveted Blue Peter badge. He said: "Yes, I finally got my Blue Peter badge. "I grew up with Blue Peter, so to work on the programme was an amazing experience for me and to get the badge was a big a thrill." Share this article A PRIVATE paradise is up for sale in Scotland - complete with its own beach. A QUARTER of the world's mammals face extinction, the latest world survey has revealed.  
