    Primary Navigation Secondary Navigation Search: Mauritanian junta backers 'not worried' by AU ultimatum Mon Oct 6, 11:41 AM ET NOUAKCHOTT (AFP) - Politicians backing the military coup in Mauritania said on Monday they were not worried by the African Union ultimatum for the junta to reinstate the ousted president, which is due to expire at midnight. "We don't care about these (African Union) ultimatums, this doesn't scare anybody," Sidi Mohamed Ould Maham, a spokesman for the majority of members of parliament who support the new military leadership, said. Setting an ultimatum "has never solved any problems", he added. On September 22 the AU issued an ultimatum for the junta to return Sidi Ould Cheikh Abdallahi to power "no later than Monday October 6". The African bloc warned the military regime that it risked "sanctions and isolation" if it failed to yield to its demands, but the junta has resisted all diplomatic pressure to restore the elected government. The leadership has categorically refused international demands for the reinstatement of the president, saying it would not move backwards. The ousted president Sidi Ould Cheikh Abdallahi was the country's first democratically elected president. If the junta does not react to the ultimatum, the African Union's Peace and Security Council will meet to consider its response. RECOMMEND THIS STORY Recommend It: Average ( Not Rated ) AP AP AP AP AP AP AP AP The Christian Science Monitor AP Australia 7 News - 33 minutes ago AFP - 47 minutes ago Reuters - 1 hour, 16 minutes ago BBC - 1 hour, 37 minutes ago Mauritanians read newspapers spread on the ground in Nouakchott. Mauritania's military leadership showed no sign... World Video News Search Related Searches: Elsewhere on the Web Time.com: McClatchy Newspapers: ABC News: Yahoo! Autos See the latest Land Rover vehicles on Yahoo! Autos. Add headlines to your personalized My Yahoo! page World - Africa NEWS ALERTS Get an alert when there are new stories about: African Union junta African Union's Peace and Security Council Sidi Ould Cheikh Abdallahi Mauritania - - Search: Primary Navigation Copyright © 2008 . All rights reserved. The information contained in the AFP News report may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed without the prior written authority of Agence France Presse. 