    FIND MEMBERS Subscribe Newsletter email: Our Sponsors | | | | | | India's top selling tech books Forward this news to your friends & colleague Subject: Receiver's Email: For more than one recipient, type addresses seperated by commas Your Name: Your Email: Message: Type verification code in the box and submit. Bangalore: As the book lovers are busy discussing about general best sellers like Amitav Gosh's latest 'Sea of Poppies' and Jeffrey Archer's thriller 'A Prisoner of Birth,' Siliconindia made an attempt to know the most selling technology related books in the IT capital of India, Bangalore. 'Object Oriented Programming with C++' by E Balaguruswamy and 'Let us C solutions' by Yashwant P Kanetkar were considered the most selling books in the last month. While the former is priced at Rs 250, the latter is available at Rs 225 "We sold around 50 copies of the each book last month," said Higginbotham staff N Nagraj. 'Let us C solutions' is a compilation of some problems in C programming language and its solution, while the other one deals with C++ language in a detailed way. 'PMP - Project Management Professional Study guide' by- Josheph Phillips is considered the second most selling book, which is priced at Rs.595. ALE, EDT and I DOC Technologies for SAP, which was co-authored by Arvind Nagpal and John Pitlak made it to the third place. The book dwells upon the basics and delves deep into details of the core topic. The fourth best seller is Oracle OCA Oracle9i Associate DBA Certification exam guide by Jason Couchman. Priced at Rs 625, the book is mostly preferred by professionals for the certified exams. In the fifth place is CCIE, which covers the papers of CISCO exams including BSCI, BCMSN, ONT and ISCW. Written by Yusuf Bhaiji, the book is priced at Rs.2300. While 'A+ Certification Training Kit', 3rd edition, brought out by Microsoft and priced at Rs 695, stood at the sixth position, 'SAP R/3 Certification Exam Guide,' which covers FI, CO, MM, PP and SD modules plus ABAP/4 Development Work Bench is at the seventh slot. Written by Stewart S. Miller, the book is priced at Rs. 575. 1 Saheer Karimbayil Your Name Email Write your comment here Type verification code in the box and submit. Readerýs comments Comment 1: its rite tht Let us C is a simple Book and u can easily get the language.....but C is not at all reading...its abt how u apply concepts in diff situations which this two books certainly lacked.... Posted by : Shashank Saraf - Thursday, October 02, 2008 Comment 2: A VERY GOOD BOOK ON SELF-DEVELOPMENT, SOFT-SKILLS OF MANAGEMENT, ENTREPRENEURSHIP TIPS... Dr A P J Abdul Kalam has praised the book. "LOOK BEYOND MONEY TO GROW RICH" by SUMIT BASU - Engineer, Manager and Industrial entrepreneur for more than forty years. A book on Self-development, Soft-skills of management & entrepreneurship tips etc. pp 274 - Rs.200/- For a copy please contact the publisher at: kdiwan@ubspd.com SOME TOPICS OF THE BOOK: What Rich people know and believe but might not tell you. You can Grow Rich. Plan your life's aim. Success is never 'LUCK', REAL-WORTH, Specialization, Self-assessment of a 'Manager', Powers of expertise. Thinking abilities, Imagination, Expertise and efficiency: Managing people, Motivation, Distribution of work & delegation, Simplification of work, How to prioritize problems, A few points on saving time, Decision-making, Judge people and their dependability, Try to learn reading people, Effective criticism, How to say 'no'. Self-esteem, Self-control, Live from within, Put yourself in others' shoes, Co-operation from others, How to earn respect, Combat worry, Find peace of mind, Qualities of a good manager, Qualities of a good entrepreneur, Tips for new entrepreneurs, Advantages of entrepreneurship, Why we fail - A to Z of reasons of failures. Persistence often pays, Customer and why/what people buy, A few more words on marketing, The good side of partnership, How some of the world's leading entrepreneurs think. Build India, Money surely can be made with uprightness, The story of Indian crabs - retold. Faith in God. Posted by : SUMITBASU - Wednesday, October 01, 2008 Comment 3: Balagurusamy's C books are good for freshers of some school, colleges, and I think they are NOT good for programming, but scoring marks in the theory exams, rather 'Let Us C' is good for who want to do programs.. Posted by : Prasad C - Wednesday, October 01, 2008 Comment 4: Extremely simple book backed by solved questions. Good for concepts also. Recommended for freshers. Author: Robert Lafore Posted by : Saurabh - Wednesday, October 01, 2008 Comment 5: For C and C++ Ritchie , Lippman are good books. You can use Strousstroup as reference later. For a fresher guy best thing is learn from a faculty and book by Kochan and actual coding in front of computer. Learning is a process so don't be a senti on a book Posted by : Saurabh - Wednesday, October 01, 2008 Comment 6: asdfsdf Posted by : asfas - Wednesday, October 01, 2008 Comment 7: Let us C and similar books are mostly used as de facto text book by students and many teachers. Excessive reliance on these book for concept building is evident in poor quality of programmers that are being produced by most of the technical Institutes. these books may be good for starters but not for the undergraduate students and definitely a NO for teachers....... but yes they are cheap and widely available and full of parlour tricks Posted by : Ravi Prakash Pandey - Wednesday, October 01, 2008 Comment 8: Really nice both of this. Check my blog like that kind of help www.deepsoftindia.blog.com Posted by : deepsoft - Wednesday, October 01, 2008 Comment 9: Yes ..Let Us C is the best Posted by : Dinesh verma - Wednesday, October 01, 2008 Comment 10: Really Let us C is a very nice book to understand and know the syntax & Logic. Posted by : Bhabani Sankar Mohanty - Wednesday, October 01, 2008 Comment 11: Let us C is really a bad book. I liked India' Top selling tech book article. It given some ideas of what is going on here! only-your-views.blogspot.com Posted by : Satya Prakash Karan - Wednesday, October 01, 2008 Comment 12: Personally, I've detested 'Let us C' just by the look of its presentation and methods. I'm a great fan of 'Programming in C' by Stephen G. Kochan. True the book is a bit outdated (I referred to the 1987 print), but for a beginner who is clueless about programming this is a great start, before diving into Kerningham and Ritchie. Posted by : Mervin - Wednesday, October 01, 2008 Comment 13: This tells a lot about the quality of computer education being imparted in our institutes. The books are so much rubbish that they should be out-rightly banned, yet they are part of curricula. The books just contain some fun riddles and does not teach actual concepts of programming or the languages. Posted by : Trailblazer - Wednesday, October 01, 2008 Comment 14: Why do people dont read Kerningham and Ritchie for C. Let us C is a very rubbish book Posted by : Mohit Katiyar - Wednesday, October 01, 2008 Comment 15: C++ is not cout,cin. It is something more than that. It has a philosophy, a pradigm. If someone wants indepth knowledge of OOPS and language like C++, Java then books written by Mr. Debasish Jana and published by PHI is the best. Selling by quantity is definitely not sale by quality. Posted by : Bijit - Wednesday, October 01, 2008 Comment 16: If someone wants to have an indepth knowledge on C++ and Java and OOPs, the books written by Mr. Debasis Jana may be considered the pioneers. The basics are unfolded with example all over the book and it includes lot of exercises. The concept is gradually developed and the free flow of writing leads the reader reach the goal very smoothly. Posted by : partha - Wednesday, October 01, 2008 Comment 17: Its good if you have a first glance at Indian authors books(gives basic fundas) later stick on to books written by authours who are boss of the languages like Ritchie for C, Strous stroup for C++ and so on Posted by : Omprakash - Wednesday, October 01, 2008 Comment 18: Have somebody read the C++ and Java books written by Jana published by PHI? They are excellent books with insightful coverage and OOP basics, a must read. Posted by : Arun - Tuesday, September 30, 2008 Comment 19: It is actually sad that people are reading Balaguruswamy/Kanitkar instead of Ritchie/Strousstroup/Lippman et. al... Posted by : Mithun - Tuesday, September 30, 2008 Comment 20: so there are techie book buffs too... Posted by : martin - Tuesday, September 30, 2008 Todayýs top news The International Monetary Fund (IMF) warned Tuesday that the U.S. financial sector losses could total $1.4 trillion as the housing crisis at the centre of the turmoil ha... In a deal worth $505 million, U.S. financial major Citigroup plans to sell its Indian back office operation to Tata Consultancy Services, India's software services export... After opening weak and then suffering almost a free fall, Indian equities markets recovered somewhat by mid-afternoon and a key index once again breached the 11,000 mark ... The Karnataka government seemed so confident it had bagged the Nano small car project that it announced constituting a committee to decide on tax concessions to Tata Moto... Students in an advanced computer security course at Rice University, Houston, are learning just how easy it is to break into software used in today's voting machines. To pitch itself in direct competition with Apple's iPhone3 and woo general consumers, Canadian wireless giant Research in Motion (RIM) Tuesday unveiled its much-expected ... Leading American chip maker Advanced Micro Devices (AMD) has spun off its manufacturing facilities to a United Arab Emirates (UAE)-based company to create a new semicondu... Communication and payment service major eServGlobal has signed a partnership agreement with the city-based billing solutions provider SunTec. Symantec, a provider of security, storage and systems management solutions, has announced the launch of Norton Internet Security 2009 and Norton AntiVirus 2009 in India. Dexterra, a provider of software to automate and manage mobile workforces, has closed $21.5 million funding. Our Sponsors Our sponsors | | | 