    Primary Navigation Secondary Navigation Search: US defence chief rejects defeatism in Afghanistan Tue Oct 7, 2:10 AM ET WASHINGTON (AFP) - US Secretary of Defense Robert Gates said there was "no reason to be defeatist" in Afghanistan , and refused to rule out the idea of negotiation with insurgents willing to reconcile with the Afghan government. Gates, speaking aboard a plane en route to a visit with European ministers, indicated he will again press NATO allies to send more troops to Afghanistan during an alliance meeting in Budapest on Thursday and Friday. "We continue to see the need for additional forces in Afghanistan," Gates said. "I want to make sure that everybody understands that the increase in US forces are not seen as replacements for Nato contributions, but as reinforcement." In response to blunt remarks from Brigadier Mark Carleton-Smith, Britain's top commander in Afghanistan, who said in an interview published Sunday that "we're not going to win this war," Gates said: "While we face significant challenges in Afghanistan there certainly is no reason to be defeatist or to underestimate the opportunity to be successful in the long run." On the question of possible peace negotiations with the Taliban , a move sought by the Afghan government, Gates said he endorsed the idea, calling it a "key long-term solution." "What is important is detaching those who are reconciliable and who are willing to be part of the future of the country from those who are irreconciliable," said Gates. He added: "Part of the solution is strenghtening the Afghan security forces, part of the solution is reconciliation with people who are willing to work with the Afghan." The defense secretary noted that a major issue during the upcoming NATO visit will be Russia 's "overreaction in Georgia." The secretary said he was "pleased" that Moscow appears to be "fulfilling the commitment that they made to (French) president (Nicolas) Sarkozy." Sarkozy helped negotiate a cease-fire plan between Russia and Georgia, who fought a brief multi-day war in August. But, said Gates, it is important to convey the message to Russia "that it really can't be business as usual after what happened in Georgia."
