    | | | | | | | | | | | | | | News Channels Entertainment News Regional News Top Sections: NEWKERALA.COM News Section: Newkerala.com is now available in , & > > Election commission to assess situation in Jammu and Kashmir Srinagar, Oct 7 : Chief Election Commissioner (CEC) N Gopalaswami and two Election Commissioners (ECs) arrived here this afternoon to assess the situation before taking a final decision on holding of Assembly elections in Jammu and Kashmir, presently under Governor's Rule. O fficial sources said Mr Gopalaswami, accompanied by ECs Navin Chawla and S Y Qureshi, arrived here at 1230 hrs on a two-day visit to state. The sources said immediately after their arrival here the three- member EC team went to Nehru guest house. The team is visiting the Valley a day after 'Lal Chowk chalo' march call given by the Coordination Committee (CC) passed off without any major protests yesterday because of curfew imposed by the authorities from October 5 morning.Curfew was lifted this morning, hours before the visit of CEC. Governor N N Vohra, who was in Civil Secretariat, also went to meet the three-member team. It was however, not immediately clear whether the meeting was held at Raj Bhavan or Nehru guest house. The team is scheduled to hold meetings with state Chief secretary S S Kapur, Director General of Police (DGP) Kuldeep Khoda, top officials of CRPF, BSF and state and central intelligence agencies throughout the day today at Nehru guest house where they are staying. Sources said the security agencies will brief the committee about the overall security situation, particularly in the backdrop of two-month-long agitation in Kashmir Valley and Jammu region on Shri Amarnath Shrine Board (SASB) land row. --- UNI Rating: This article has not been rated yet. Rate: (c) 2007 Published with permission from . Unauthorised publication of any content from NewKerala.Com is prohibited Special Features: India Travel Maps: Regional Maps of India: City Maps of India: States of India Information: Latest Video: Best of NewKerala.Com Photo Gallery : | | | ý 2001-2008 . All Rights Reserved. 