    Hello Guest October 7, 2008 Web search powered by YAHOO! SEARCH Cloudy | | | | | | | | ( 0 ) | US: 43 militants killed in southern Afghanistan By FISNIK ABRASHI Associated Press Writer Posted: Tuesday, Oct. 07, 2008 KABUL, Afghanistan U.S. and Afghan troops clashed and called airstrikes on a group of insurgents in southern Afghanistan, killing 43 militants, the U.S. military said Tuesday. The militants ambushed the U.S.-Afghan force with sniper fire and rocket-propelled grenades in Qalat district of Zabul province Sunday, a statement from the U.S. military said. The joint force fought back and called in airstrikes that killed the militants, it said. A civilian, working as a contractor for the U.S. military, was wounded in the operation. There were no casualties among Afghan and U.S. troops. Southern Afghanistan is the center of the Taliban-led insurgency. More than 4,700 people - mostly militants - have died so far this year in insurgency-related violence. An unprecedented number of U.S. troops - about 32,000 - are in Afghanistan today, and the Pentagon plans to send several thousand more forces in the coming months. At least 131 U.S. troops have died in Afghanistan this year, as have 100 troops from other NATO nations. Some of those U.S. and NATO troops work alongside Afghan army and police, mentoring and training the fledgling forces, as they take on the Taliban and other militants in daily battles across the country. Showing: wrote on @Nyx.PostedAtTime@: @Nyx.CommentBody@ @Nyx.Recommender@ @Nyx.AbuseReporter@ The Charlotte Observer is pleased to be able to offer its users the opportunity to make comments and hold conversations online. However, the interactive nature of the internet makes it impracticable for our staff to monitor each and every posting. Since charlotteobserver.com does not control user submitted statements, we cannot promise that readers will not occasionally find offensive or inaccurate comments posted on our website. In addition, we remind anyone interested in making an online comment that responsibility for statements posted lies with the person submitting the comment, not The Charlotte Observer. If you find a comment offensive, clicking on the exclamation icon will flag the comment for review by the administrators, we are counting on the good judgment of all our readers to help us. Tool Name tool goes here Recent Blogs Lottery 1-4-26-32-39 PB18 PP5 5-16-21-30-33 0-5-8 1-7-3 Most Viewed Submit Content Online Extras Observer Network Report comment as: (required) Remarks: (optional) 
