    Wednesday October 08, 2008 Weather: CLEAR Tmp: 52° F Hum: 89% Login: | Email Story Print Story Print Photos Download PDF Who would you like us to say this is from? What is your email address? What email address would you like us to send it to? Published on Sunday, October 05, 2008 New York: The city of ‘Mad Men’ lives on By Scott Vogel The Washington Post ADVERTISEMENT Becoming a dissolute ad executive from another era takes persistence and attention to detail. It is not merely a matter of scoring an early ’60s Kingsbridge suit by John Taylor Ltd. of Tarrytown and a skinny Harry Rothman tie. You can’t just vacuum up Lucky Strikes. No, if you want to be a piece of serious collateral damage in the phenomenon that is AMC’s ȁC;Mad Men,ȁD; which just won an Emmy for best drama series, you’ve got to get the lingo down. To know your dolls from your sweethearts, I mean. ȁC;A pack of Lucky Strikes, sweetheart,ȁD; you say to the elderly woman behind the counter of a Times Square bodega, figuring she is well past doll age. Her face freezes behind the bifocals for a moment. You’ll get that $9 pack of cigarettes, but not until she has given you a head-to-toe: the hair gel as hard and shiny as patent leather, the French cuff shirt, the tie clip. You get all the way to the door before hearing the woman break into a nervous cackle. People come to ȁC;Mad MenȁD; (which is actually filmed on the West Coast) for many reasons. For some, it’s the ad agency at the show’s heart, Sterling Cooper, where Camelot-era men fire zingers at warp speed, and the secretaries forage for husbands. But Sterling Cooper is also a profoundly sad place. Haunted men booze it up in the morning, visit mistresses in the afternoon and chain-smoke the rest of the time. What do we love about this show again? Sterling Cooper is at 405 Madison Ave., an address that does not exist. If it did exist, it would be where a bank of Chase ATMs is now, not the ideal spot to spend the morning, but don’t worry, soon it will be 11:30 and time for your first cocktail. Opting for the spot where Salvatore memorably flirted with a client in Episode 8, Season 1, you head for the bar at the Roosevelt Hotel. It is just as cozy and somber as a place dedicated to illicitness should be. Lunch time! Luckily the Oyster Bar at Grand Central Terminal is just a few blocks away. The red-checkered tablecloths are exactly as they were on the day Don and Roger overdid it. Dozens of kinds of mollusks from two oceans are available on any given day. Come to think of it, maybe you’d like to take the rest of the day off and have a tryst with office siren/head secretary Joan in her modest Greenwich Village flat, or roll your eyes at the Beat poets declaiming from the stage of the Gaslight Cafe, where Bob Dylan and Allen Ginsberg once prowled. No can do. Joan was long ago priced out of her place at 42 W. 12th, a street where the going price for a studio is two grand a month. And the Gaslight (at 116 MacDougal) has morphed into a tattoo parlor. You’ll also want to visit P.J. Clarke’s on Third Avenue. The ancient beer-and-burger joint has changed little since the night the Sterling Cooper bunch took over the place and danced the twist. Sardi’s, once the happening spot, is now just sort-of-happening-kind-of. You’ve probably imagined an uneasy mix of biz types and the occasional shouting match, but instead you’re more likely to witness elderly couples or red-faced Wall Street execs over-salting the cannelloni while praying for an end to the financial crisis. With each passing day, more and more desperation seems to grip New York. The city leaves you with the same feeling that ȁC;Mad MenȁD; does, and maybe that’s the real reason the show speaks to us. It all makes you want to scare up a copy of ȁC;Meditations in an Emergency,ȁD; as Don did, and seek out a quiet spot for reflection. One thought: Paley Park on East 53rd St. The park is in the exact spot where the Stork Club once stood, a perfect oasis for mulling over Frank O’Hara’s poetry: ȁC;Now I am quietly waiting for ȁC;the catastrophe of my personality ȁC;to seem beautiful again, ȁC;and interesting, and modern.ȁD; Keep up to date with all the news! Try our , , and our PM Newscast every weekday at 3:00. Register to win tickets to the IHRA World Finals in Rockingham! NEW! - Take a look at our newest site, 910moms.com Pigskin Payoff Contest Autos Homes Jobs Classifieds Directory - Find local businesses fast. Mobile Edition TxtAlerts Newspapers in Education Coupons Jobs at The Observer Advertise Online E-Commercials Contests Ad Marketplace Observer Store Singles Copyright 2008 - The Fayetteville Observer | 