    Wednesday October 8, 2008 Charlottetown, PE Partly cloudy 6°C USER NAME PASSWORD EDITORIAL CONTENT LETTERS TO EDITOR CLASSIFIED PHOTO GALLERIES | NIE - NEWSPAPERS IN EDUCATION YOUR MONEY Recipe of the day Butternut Squash Pie Winter squash is not only for savoury dishes. Here,... Make The Guardian Your Home Page LOCAL NEWS | | | Last updated at 2:43 PM on 07/10/08 Liberals on top across most of P.E.I. BY WAYNE THIBODEAU The Guardian Above is an exclusive poll commissioned by The Guardian. (Guardian graphic) The federal Liberal party remains eight points ahead of the governing Conservatives across much of P.E.I., but those numbers may be deceiving, according to polling data. The Guardian commissioned Corporate Research Associates to find out which party Islanders are most likely going to vote for in the Oct. 14 federal election. Pollsters sampled 601 Islanders. The poll shows support for the Liberal party at 46 per cent province-wide. That compares to 41 per cent for the Conservatives. But when Egmont is removed from the polling data, support for the Liberals increases to 47 per cent while support for the Conservatives decreases to 39 per cent — giving the Liberal party an eight-point lead. Don Mills, president and CEO of Corporate Research Associates, explains that there are wide discrepancies in the rest of P.E.I. While the sample size is too small to provide exact numbers, Mills said polling data indicates that it is a virtual dead-heat between Liberal Wayne Easter and Conservative Mary Crane. In Cardigan, Liberal Lawrence MacAulay appears to have a small but comfortable lead over Conservative Sid McMullin. But in Charlottetown, Liberal Shawn Murphy appears to have a substantial lead over Conservative Tom DeBlois. But Mills cautions that the margin of error is more than nine per cent in these riding breakdowns. “It just says to me that there may be a couple of ridings that are going to be a lot closer than last time,” said Mills, noting that in the 2006 federal election Liberals won the seats with between 2,900 and 4,600 votes. Support for the NDP remains at eight per cent across Prince Edward Island. In Egmont, that support increases slightly to nine per cent. But the NDP remains far and away Islanders’ second choice. When asked who Islanders would support if they could not support their number one choice, 31 per cent of Islanders picked the NDP. That compares to 13 per cent for the Green Party, 10 per cent for the Liberals and eight per cent for the Conservatives. The Green Party’s support remains at five per cent across the province. Support is weaker in Egmont, where only three per cent say they’re most likely to vote Green. In terms of leadership, support for Conservative Prime Minister Stephen Harper remains strong across P.E.I. When asked which one of the following individuals would you most prefer as prime minister of Canada, 36 per cent of Islanders picked Harper — an 11-point lead over his Liberal rival. Liberal Leader Stephane Dion was the choice of 25 per cent of Islanders. NDP Leader Jack Layton came in third with 17 per cent while the Green Party’s Elizabeth May placed fourth with five per cent. The Guardian commissioned Corporate Research Associates to conduct the poll. There were 601 Islanders interviewed. The margin of error is plus or minus four percentage points 19 times out of 20. The interviews were conducted Sept. 29-Oct. 5. In Egmont, 251 interviews were conducted over the same time period. The margin of error is plus or minus 6.2 per cent 19 times out of 20. In 2006, Mills said Islanders gave the Liberals 53 per cent support while the Conservatives, who were shut out in the last election, had 33 per cent. Now, Liberal support has fallen to 46 per cent provincewide while the Conservatives are at 41 per cent. “There is an opportunity for the Conservatives to pick up a seat.” The Guardian will have more from the Corporate Research Associates’ poll on Wednesday, including a closer look at what issues are on the minds of Island voters. 07/10/08 Comments: This Conversation is Moderated. What does moderation mean? The Guardian is committed to encouraging intelligent discourse among our readers and to creating a forum where diverse views and opinions on a wide range of topics can be aired. The forum you are in now is a result of our continuing efforts to facilitate a dynamic online conversation among our readers. This is a moderated conversation. Once a reader follows the steps to register and submit his or her comment it goes to a moderator for the website. Once it has been approved, your comment will be displayed on the website. A comment may be edited or deleted for reasons of content or language. All readers wishing to join a conversation must first sign in and agree to the , which explain the rules of acceptable content. ( ) Ron from Trenton, Ont writes: For you folks voting for the Libs, and if they get in Ottawa, you better have a few extra dollars stashed away because your going to need it to heat your homes when the price of furnace oil goes through the roof and a lot of other goods and services with the Green Shaft. Don;t say I didn't tell you so. Posted 07/10/2008 at 9:44 AM | | ALERT US ABOUT THIS COMMENT Please let us know if this reader's comment breaks the rules explained in the and is obscene, abusive, threatening, unlawful, harassing, defamatory, profane or racially offensive by selecting the appropriate option to describe the problem. Do not use this to complain about comments that don't break the rules, for example those comments that you disagree with or contain spelling errors or multiple postings. Comment is inflammatory Comment is offensive Comment is advertising/spam wide awake from pei writes: Leave it to the Guardian to report some information and not all the information on this recent poll.. No where in either article on this poll did you mention the percentage of undecided voters.. I did hear on the radio this morning that it was 34%... so you gave the facts for Egmont... so do the math on the rest of the Island's 3 ridings.... The poll was based on 349 persons... of that 34% were undecided (119) .. so take the undecided out of the number mix and you have left 231 persons to base the numbers on.. 47% Liberal(108) Conservatives 39% (90) ... so now when you look at the numbers for the 3 ridings things look a tad bit different... to state there is a close race in Cardigan between Lawrence and Sid ... what about the undecided??? The polsters did not give one mention to the Independent Candidate in Cardigan... So... do not put to much stock in this poll... the guardian is famous for polls... very close to election day.... give the facts please.... all the facts... Posted 07/10/2008 at 9:54 AM | | ALERT US ABOUT THIS COMMENT Please let us know if this reader's comment breaks the rules explained in the and is obscene, abusive, threatening, unlawful, harassing, defamatory, profane or racially offensive by selecting the appropriate option to describe the problem. Do not use this to complain about comments that don't break the rules, for example those comments that you disagree with or contain spelling errors or multiple postings. Comment is inflammatory Comment is offensive Comment is advertising/spam My God from West, PEI writes: Another poll by the Guardian, that paints Liberals ina good light, never thought that would happen. LOL Posted 07/10/2008 at 9:55 AM | | ALERT US ABOUT THIS COMMENT Please let us know if this reader's comment breaks the rules explained in the and is obscene, abusive, threatening, unlawful, harassing, defamatory, profane or racially offensive by selecting the appropriate option to describe the problem. Do not use this to complain about comments that don't break the rules, for example those comments that you disagree with or contain spelling errors or multiple postings. Comment is inflammatory Comment is offensive Comment is advertising/spam Jimmy from Summerside, PEI writes: It will all depend on the mood in Summerside who wins this seat. I would not want to put money down as this is going to be close. Certainly with all the controversy facing provincial liberals could hurt Keith however Keith is well respected in Summerside so he may pull it off. Posted 07/10/2008 at 10:12 AM | | ALERT US ABOUT THIS COMMENT Please let us know if this reader's comment breaks the rules explained in the and is obscene, abusive, threatening, unlawful, harassing, defamatory, profane or racially offensive by selecting the appropriate option to describe the problem. Do not use this to complain about comments that don't break the rules, for example those comments that you disagree with or contain spelling errors or multiple postings. Comment is inflammatory Comment is offensive Comment is advertising/spam Don't believe the Hype from PE writes: 'but those numbers may be deceiving, according to polling data' I don't think the polling data is the problem here. Most of the results are about where I would have expected. I thought Shea might have a bigger lead. I don't think Mary Crane is really going to challange, and I suspect MacAullay will actually end up more 'comfortable' than Murphy. But all that is speculation. What concerns me is how the poll was conducted. Part of the sampling was done prior to the debates, and part was post debate. As well, the sampling from Egmont represents 42% of the over all poll. While that might reduce the rate of error in Egmont, it wreaks havoc on the results for the other ridings as wll as the rest of the province as a whole. An error rate of +/- 9% in the other ridings means they might as well say they have no information. It will be quite interesting to see how these numbers hold up on election night Posted 07/10/2008 at 10:16 AM | | ALERT US ABOUT THIS COMMENT Please let us know if this reader's comment breaks the rules explained in the and is obscene, abusive, threatening, unlawful, harassing, defamatory, profane or racially offensive by selecting the appropriate option to describe the problem. Do not use this to complain about comments that don't break the rules, for example those comments that you disagree with or contain spelling errors or multiple postings. Comment is inflammatory Comment is offensive Comment is advertising/spam My2Cents from PEI writes: PEOPLE PEOPLE Try to keep in mind that that are FOUR parties to chose from. Just because your local candidate is a close friend, a hard worker, a helluva nice person; look beyond the person and into the eyes of his/her boss before you cast your vote. If you want a George Bush Type Federal Government, by all means, cast your vote for one of Harper's minions. A Conservative Vote on PEI is a Conservative Vote in Ottawa. If your memory has failed you and you have forgotten the Sponsorship Scandal, and if you think a tearful eye in Stephane Dion is enough of an apology, put the X next to any Liberal candidate you like. There is more than BLUE or RED to choose from. Posted 07/10/2008 at 10:37 AM | | ALERT US ABOUT THIS COMMENT Please let us know if this reader's comment breaks the rules explained in the and is obscene, abusive, threatening, unlawful, harassing, defamatory, profane or racially offensive by selecting the appropriate option to describe the problem. Do not use this to complain about comments that don't break the rules, for example those comments that you disagree with or contain spelling errors or multiple postings. Comment is inflammatory Comment is offensive Comment is advertising/spam Clay from PEI writes: This poll is very positive for the conservatives. It shows momentum for the Tories and the big undesided will want to be with the winner. The winner is PM Stephan Harper because everyone expects him to win the election. Now Islanders need to decide if they want to be at the government table or outside in the cold. Posted 07/10/2008 at 10:44 AM | | ALERT US ABOUT THIS COMMENT Please let us know if this reader's comment breaks the rules explained in the and is obscene, abusive, threatening, unlawful, harassing, defamatory, profane or racially offensive by selecting the appropriate option to describe the problem. Do not use this to complain about comments that don't break the rules, for example those comments that you disagree with or contain spelling errors or multiple postings. Comment is inflammatory Comment is offensive Comment is advertising/spam lisa from PEI writes: Hey Hype, if you remove your Liberal blinders, you'll see that Mary Crane is more than challenging Wayne Easter. Posted 07/10/2008 at 10:48 AM | | ALERT US ABOUT THIS COMMENT Please let us know if this reader's comment breaks the rules explained in the and is obscene, abusive, threatening, unlawful, harassing, defamatory, profane or racially offensive by selecting the appropriate option to describe the problem. Do not use this to complain about comments that don't break the rules, for example those comments that you disagree with or contain spelling errors or multiple postings. Comment is inflammatory Comment is offensive Comment is advertising/spam Humpty Dumpty from PEI writes: Poor Wayne, in a dead heat, and he's pulled out all the stops. Never before had a guaranteed cabinet appointment (to a non-existent cabinet) or sympathy votes for his death wish. Mapleque needs an effective representative. Mary Crane actually cares and has the ability to connect and communicate. She will accomplish many things for Malpeque while Wayne will rant and rave just to fuel partisanship emotions. Wayne's slogan should read 'talk hard, no action' Posted 07/10/2008 at 10:54 AM | | ALERT US ABOUT THIS COMMENT Please let us know if this reader's comment breaks the rules explained in the and is obscene, abusive, threatening, unlawful, harassing, defamatory, profane or racially offensive by selecting the appropriate option to describe the problem. Do not use this to complain about comments that don't break the rules, for example those comments that you disagree with or contain spelling errors or multiple postings. Comment is inflammatory Comment is offensive Comment is advertising/spam common sense rules from pei writes: The people of Egmont realize that this is their opportunity to be on the government side with a person who will be a real player. Gail Shea was able to get Route # 2 included in the National Highway System and this is proof that she will deliver for Summerside and West Prince. After years of Charlottetown and Kings County politicians representing the island in Ottawa, Summerside and west will finally have the all important cabinet minister for PEI Posted 07/10/2008 at 11:11 AM | | ALERT US ABOUT THIS COMMENT Please let us know if this reader's comment breaks the rules explained in the and is obscene, abusive, threatening, unlawful, harassing, defamatory, profane or racially offensive by selecting the appropriate option to describe the problem. Do not use this to complain about comments that don't break the rules, for example those comments that you disagree with or contain spelling errors or multiple postings. Comment is inflammatory Comment is offensive Comment is advertising/spam Don't believe the Hype from PE writes: Mary Crane is said to be in a dead heat in a poll that has a magin of error of +/- 9% in the Malpeque district due to over representation of Egmont. I bet that on Election night Wayne wins by minuimun 7%. Not from so called Liberal blinders, but what I am hearing from a lot of the area and what I have observed. IF I am wrong, I will gladly come on this forum and admit it. 3-1 for the liberals on the island, with the Conservatives forming a minority gov't. By the way, this poll has the Shea and Milligan within 4 points with the margin of Error as 6 points in that riding. If I wanted to spout liberal rhetoric, I would say that that could have milligan up by 2 points and is a statitical dead heat in itself. But I don't believe that. And there is plenty of partisan rhetoric here already. My2cents makes some decent points. But don't just look at the person in the riding, and their leader, but look at the platforms of the parties. See what their plans are and what they are proposing. And them look at the plans and all the issues. When you want information on the plans and platforms, get it from the ones proposing it. Don't let the Liberals tell you about the NDP plan, the Conservative tell you about the Green plan, or the NDP define the Conservative plan, ect. Look at the facts of each plan and decide what you like. For example, Bevan-Baker in the malpeque riding comes across as a decent fellow. MAy actually impressed me in the debate with her talking points on the economy and enviroment. However the Green Party wants to outlaw semi-automatic rifles and handguns. I oppose this so I have a hard time supporting this party. Posted 07/10/2008 at 11:28 AM | | ALERT US ABOUT THIS COMMENT Please let us know if this reader's comment breaks the rules explained in the and is obscene, abusive, threatening, unlawful, harassing, defamatory, profane or racially offensive by selecting the appropriate option to describe the problem. Do not use this to complain about comments that don't break the rules, for example those comments that you disagree with or contain spelling errors or multiple postings. Comment is inflammatory Comment is offensive Comment is advertising/spam Ray Mahar from City, PE writes: Polls, Polls, and more Polls. The Chief told the press what he thought about Polls. What do dogs do with Polls.????. By the way. The Chief was the HONOURABLE. John Diefenbaker. Posted 07/10/2008 at 11:53 AM | | ALERT US ABOUT THIS COMMENT Please let us know if this reader's comment breaks the rules explained in the and is obscene, abusive, threatening, unlawful, harassing, defamatory, profane or racially offensive by selecting the appropriate option to describe the problem. Do not use this to complain about comments that don't break the rules, for example those comments that you disagree with or contain spelling errors or multiple postings. Comment is inflammatory Comment is offensive Comment is advertising/spam me from Charlottetown, pe writes: Our house will be voting for NDP this time! No more red or blue for us!! Posted 07/10/2008 at 11:57 AM | | ALERT US ABOUT THIS COMMENT Please let us know if this reader's comment breaks the rules explained in the and is obscene, abusive, threatening, unlawful, harassing, defamatory, profane or racially offensive by selecting the appropriate option to describe the problem. Do not use this to complain about comments that don't break the rules, for example those comments that you disagree with or contain spelling errors or multiple postings. Comment is inflammatory Comment is offensive Comment is advertising/spam Use Your Head from ottawa writes: To all Islanders: If you keep voting in the Liberal representatives from your specific riding then you will have no voice in Ottawa. Also, why would the Harper government help out an Island of 140,000 people if the majority isn't supporting him and his government. You have an a opportunity with four seats to help Harper get the majority he needs. He will look out for those who look after him. Harper has done many things in his last term to help out low to middle income people and has also decreased the GST. If you want the Liberals in, make sure you are ready to shell our more tax dollars and increase your monthly bills on gas, heating oil,etc becaus ewith this carbon tax it will put most middle to low income families through financial suicide. And I can guarantee he will make sure Quebec will be very well looked after. Posted 07/10/2008 at 12:01 PM | | ALERT US ABOUT THIS COMMENT Please let us know if this reader's comment breaks the rules explained in the and is obscene, abusive, threatening, unlawful, harassing, defamatory, profane or racially offensive by selecting the appropriate option to describe the problem. Do not use this to complain about comments that don't break the rules, for example those comments that you disagree with or contain spelling errors or multiple postings. Comment is inflammatory Comment is offensive Comment is advertising/spam Ivan from PEI writes: Anyone who thinks that we will all have more money under Harper is deluded. His corporate and other tax cuts have to be paid for somehow and this means reductions in some services or putting taxes up elsewhere (stealthy). We may have more money in our pockets but more will be leaving. On a side note, has anyone else nearly crashed their car because some Mary Crane lunatic has been waving a placard in their face as they drive by? Posted 07/10/2008 at 12:34 PM | | ALERT US ABOUT THIS COMMENT Please let us know if this reader's comment breaks the rules explained in the and is obscene, abusive, threatening, unlawful, harassing, defamatory, profane or racially offensive by selecting the appropriate option to describe the problem. Do not use this to complain about comments that don't break the rules, for example those comments that you disagree with or contain spelling errors or multiple postings. Comment is inflammatory Comment is offensive Comment is advertising/spam Karl from PE writes: Don't Believe the Hype wrote - However the Green Party wants to outlaw semi-automatic rifles and handguns. I oppose this so I have a hard time supporting this party. You realize the Liberals and NDP have similar plans. The only ones being sensible and not jumping on the ban-dwagon are the Conservatives. Posted 07/10/2008 at 12:53 PM | | ALERT US ABOUT THIS COMMENT Please let us know if this reader's comment breaks the rules explained in the and is obscene, abusive, threatening, unlawful, harassing, defamatory, profane or racially offensive by selecting the appropriate option to describe the problem. Do not use this to complain about comments that don't break the rules, for example those comments that you disagree with or contain spelling errors or multiple postings. Comment is inflammatory Comment is offensive Comment is advertising/spam matt from Charlottetown, PE. writes: who ever votes LIB then were all screwed so please think before you vote there's a reason why im voting NDP GO LAYTON Posted 07/10/2008 at 1:08 PM | | ALERT US ABOUT THIS COMMENT Please let us know if this reader's comment breaks the rules explained in the and is obscene, abusive, threatening, unlawful, harassing, defamatory, profane or racially offensive by selecting the appropriate option to describe the problem. Do not use this to complain about comments that don't break the rules, for example those comments that you disagree with or contain spelling errors or multiple postings. Comment is inflammatory Comment is offensive Comment is advertising/spam Don't believe the Hype from PE writes: Nice try Karl, but read their platform. They have no intention of banning either. They do intend on placing Assault style weapons such as the one used at Dawson College on the Prohibited list. I am OK with that. However a centerfire hunting rifle for say Moose or Deer cannot have a magazine or clip capacity greater than 5 shots by current law. That includes semi autos. I believe that all semi-auto centre fire long guns should fit this. And semi auto centre fire rifles with a capacity for more than 5 rounds should be moved from the restricted list to the prohibited list. The rifle used in Dawson College had a 30 round mag and there is absolutly no need for this. That being said, the liberals have to work on their terminology, because a rifle is only considered an Assault weapon if it has the capacity to fire full Auto. The rifle used in Dawson college does not fit that criteria, but still should be prohibited. Handguns are currently limited to 10 roundsand must have a muzzle length of greater than 110mm. That reduces their consealability. For the sake of information, the shooting at Dawson College represents the first recorded violent crime with a legally acquired restricted weapon in Canada. The shooting at Ecole Polytechnique, though drawing tougher legislation, was commited with an illegal rifle. The liberal platform talks about creating a fund and providing legislation to assist police in removing illegal firearms from the street, especially from gangs. That I support. I do not support knee jerk legislation that does nothing to address the problem, only appease a few to buy a few votes. This was the big problem with the last peice of firearm legislation that did come out under the liberals. (registry) Posted 07/10/2008 at 1:40 PM | | ALERT US ABOUT THIS COMMENT Please let us know if this reader's comment breaks the rules explained in the and is obscene, abusive, threatening, unlawful, harassing, defamatory, profane or racially offensive by selecting the appropriate option to describe the problem. Do not use this to complain about comments that don't break the rules, for example those comments that you disagree with or contain spelling errors or multiple postings. Comment is inflammatory Comment is offensive Comment is advertising/spam Matt Mc from PE writes: People in the rest of PEI should think of the Green Shift and how we are all going to pay before they put their X on the Ballot for the Liberals. Posted 07/10/2008 at 2:02 PM | | ALERT US ABOUT THIS COMMENT Please let us know if this reader's comment breaks the rules explained in the and is obscene, abusive, threatening, unlawful, harassing, defamatory, profane or racially offensive by selecting the appropriate option to describe the problem. Do not use this to complain about comments that don't break the rules, for example those comments that you disagree with or contain spelling errors or multiple postings. Comment is inflammatory Comment is offensive Comment is advertising/spam Kim from PEI writes: I cannot believe that people are actually voting Liberal! I would like to know who is in favor of the Carbon Tax and why? Sure, some of the Liberal promises sound too good to be true - and guess what? They are too good to be true? Do we really want Stephane Dion leading this country? Open up your eyes people! Posted 07/10/2008 at 2:09 PM | | ALERT US ABOUT THIS COMMENT Please let us know if this reader's comment breaks the rules explained in the and is obscene, abusive, threatening, unlawful, harassing, defamatory, profane or racially offensive by selecting the appropriate option to describe the problem. Do not use this to complain about comments that don't break the rules, for example those comments that you disagree with or contain spelling errors or multiple postings. Comment is inflammatory Comment is offensive Comment is advertising/spam Don't believe the Hype from PE writes: HONOURABLE. John Diefenbaker??!!?!?! I can hardly stop laughing. Avro Arrow, Bomarc Missle, Diefenbunkers, opposed to biligualism, and usheredd in huge reccession. I would have not emphizied Honorable. But thanks for bringing some lieviety to the discussion. Posted 07/10/2008 at 2:22 PM | | ALERT US ABOUT THIS COMMENT Please let us know if this reader's comment breaks the rules explained in the and is obscene, abusive, threatening, unlawful, harassing, defamatory, profane or racially offensive by selecting the appropriate option to describe the problem. Do not use this to complain about comments that don't break the rules, for example those comments that you disagree with or contain spelling errors or multiple postings. Comment is inflammatory Comment is offensive Comment is advertising/spam confused by too much from charlottetown, pei writes: Didn't I hear the Green Party guy say they wanted to impose a tax five times the size of Dion's ? But, maybe they only plan on taxing the rich. Well, I do daydream, don't I. Pollard is a reformed smoker, the worst kind. He is another who doesn't believe the smokers should be wasting the health care dollar. He is also another that can't seem to admit to the smoker's taxes helping to pay for everyone else's health care or government buildings or politician's salaries or flowers or chairs or political banquets or the alcohol beverages they consume at said banquets.etc. Dion's planned carbon tax does nothing to exempt the poor whose pockets are already empty two thirds of the month. Planning on giving back some money in the form of tax breaks does nothing for those who don't have the money to keep warm now. And I can't quite see the dept of Social Services raising the rental or heating allowance to sufficiently cover those new costs. This carbon plan didn't even cover the problem raised with oil companies that won't deliver less than a set amount of home heating oil. Am I wrong in assuming that politicians or would-be politicians rely on scientists and economists for answers to certain very important questions ? If, indeed, that is the case, then this Green Shift plan is not an original idea of Dion's. O, yes, I did read something about it being patterned after some other countries' plans. As I mentioned before, I do believe Harper will come up with a similar plan after the election hype is all over. Hopefully, Harper's plan won't be so expensive as Dion's. What is it with politicians anyway. The only answer they can come up with for anything is a new tax. Posted 07/10/2008 at 2:47 PM | | ALERT US ABOUT THIS COMMENT Please let us know if this reader's comment breaks the rules explained in the and is obscene, abusive, threatening, unlawful, harassing, defamatory, profane or racially offensive by selecting the appropriate option to describe the problem. Do not use this to complain about comments that don't break the rules, for example those comments that you disagree with or contain spelling errors or multiple postings. Comment is inflammatory Comment is offensive Comment is advertising/spam Karl from PE writes: Do you honestly think that, if the Liberals somehow manage to gain power, they will completely ignore one of their main policy statements from the last election and not ban any and all handguns? If you do, I want what you're having. And under current law, it's semi-automatic centerfire firearms that are limited to a magazine capacity of 5 - not all centerfire. And I would like to know why you feel the Beretta CX4 still should be prohibited . Based on how it looks? Posted 07/10/2008 at 2:54 PM | | ALERT US ABOUT THIS COMMENT Please let us know if this reader's comment breaks the rules explained in the and is obscene, abusive, threatening, unlawful, harassing, defamatory, profane or racially offensive by selecting the appropriate option to describe the problem. Do not use this to complain about comments that don't break the rules, for example those comments that you disagree with or contain spelling errors or multiple postings. Comment is inflammatory Comment is offensive Comment is advertising/spam Tyler from PEI writes: Use Your Head from ottawa, Are you threatening us that Harper isn't going to look after us because we're only 140 000 people? Well, the Island doesn't need Harper... as much as you people from Ottawa might like to threaten us, the Island will stand proud and stay red! Posted 07/10/2008 at 3:11 PM | | ALERT US ABOUT THIS COMMENT Please let us know if this reader's comment breaks the rules explained in the and is obscene, abusive, threatening, unlawful, harassing, defamatory, profane or racially offensive by selecting the appropriate option to describe the problem. Do not use this to complain about comments that don't break the rules, for example those comments that you disagree with or contain spelling errors or multiple postings. Comment is inflammatory Comment is offensive Comment is advertising/spam TA from pei writes: One thing that has commonality during this election is the absolute bias of the media. Some of the comments reflect that on this story. I'm saddened by that as I tune in specifically to be informed not be given a reporters slant. Its difficult to get that information unless you hear directly from the leaders and then their answers to questions posed by reporters. I form my opinions based on that information not on reporters spin. Its amazing how a slight shift of language can send the message off line. All news organizations need to re assess their performances during this campaign. The fact is that most of the reporters are left of centre and they try to move their own point of view forward. They don't like Harper and they would be more than happy to see him gone. I put reporters at the same table as lawyers when it comes to integrity. That is a shame. People, please get informed, and vote for the person of YOUR choice. Its our democracy, its our responsibility. Posted 07/10/2008 at 3:30 PM | | ALERT US ABOUT THIS COMMENT Please let us know if this reader's comment breaks the rules explained in the and is obscene, abusive, threatening, unlawful, harassing, defamatory, profane or racially offensive by selecting the appropriate option to describe the problem. Do not use this to complain about comments that don't break the rules, for example those comments that you disagree with or contain spelling errors or multiple postings. Comment is inflammatory Comment is offensive Comment is advertising/spam Conservative Supporter from Malpeque, P.E.I. writes: People, give your heads a shake! Anyone planning to vote Liberal should be ashamed of themselves, if the Liberals form the government (they most likely will not), expect your grocery, gas, and utility bills to increase drastically; you Liberals will be crying hard times then. There are other ways to help the environment, I'm doing my part by recycling everything I can. I went to the advance poll on Friday in my riding and it was packed, there's so much interest in this election than the one in 2006. The talk around here is that Wayne Easter will be defeated this time around. He is a disgrace to the people of Malpeque, he doesn't care about the seniors or the low-income workers, he only cares about his buddies with the 'wheat board'. As for Mary Crane, I've known her for years and when she says she's going to do something, she does it for the good of the people. That's why she gets my support. Posted 07/10/2008 at 3:32 PM | | ALERT US ABOUT THIS COMMENT Please let us know if this reader's comment breaks the rules explained in the and is obscene, abusive, threatening, unlawful, harassing, defamatory, profane or racially offensive by selecting the appropriate option to describe the problem. Do not use this to complain about comments that don't break the rules, for example those comments that you disagree with or contain spelling errors or multiple postings. Comment is inflammatory Comment is offensive Comment is advertising/spam decided from pe writes: Islanders, shut up and do what you're told. The master has spoken. You've been warned that if you don't vote reform , I mean Conservative, you're totally screwed. We all know harper never broke a promise in his life. Posted 07/10/2008 at 4:44 PM | | ALERT US ABOUT THIS COMMENT Please let us know if this reader's comment breaks the rules explained in the and is obscene, abusive, threatening, unlawful, harassing, defamatory, profane or racially offensive by selecting the appropriate option to describe the problem. Do not use this to complain about comments that don't break the rules, for example those comments that you disagree with or contain spelling errors or multiple postings. Comment is inflammatory Comment is offensive Comment is advertising/spam Ron from Trenton, Ont writes: To Tyler From PEI Writes; The guy from Ottawa was not threatening anybody, he is just stating the fact that if you folks want to vote Red then fine. But don't come hat in hand to Ottawa looking for relief. That's All. Posted 07/10/2008 at 4:51 PM | | ALERT US ABOUT THIS COMMENT Please let us know if this reader's comment breaks the rules explained in the and is obscene, abusive, threatening, unlawful, harassing, defamatory, profane or racially offensive by selecting the appropriate option to describe the problem. Do not use this to complain about comments that don't break the rules, for example those comments that you disagree with or contain spelling errors or multiple postings. Comment is inflammatory Comment is offensive Comment is advertising/spam History from pe writes: This election will make history as the election when voters do not vote for a party or an individual. The will vote against something . A tax which will do nothing for the enviroment and put 50 billion in the pockets of the same individuals that made so , so, many bad deals , and private investments when they were in power. Posted 07/10/2008 at 5:18 PM | | ALERT US ABOUT THIS COMMENT Please let us know if this reader's comment breaks the rules explained in the and is obscene, abusive, threatening, unlawful, harassing, defamatory, profane or racially offensive by selecting the appropriate option to describe the problem. Do not use this to complain about comments that don't break the rules, for example those comments that you disagree with or contain spelling errors or multiple postings. Comment is inflammatory Comment is offensive Comment is advertising/spam astonished from pei writes: tyler give your head a shake you are speaking nonscense this little island can not stand alone ...we need each other ...we need harper ..go harper go... Posted 07/10/2008 at 5:31 PM | | ALERT US ABOUT THIS COMMENT Please let us know if this reader's comment breaks the rules explained in the and is obscene, abusive, threatening, unlawful, harassing, defamatory, profane or racially offensive by selecting the appropriate option to describe the problem. Do not use this to complain about comments that don't break the rules, for example those comments that you disagree with or contain spelling errors or multiple postings. Comment is inflammatory Comment is offensive Comment is advertising/spam to Ron from Trenton from pe writes: Please do not think that all Islanders are totally ignorant of what is going on around them. Just the majority. You are absoultly right , , They will come with hat in hand when the time comes as always and they have an adverse reaction to common sense and alway do exactly opposite to what the should. That is the Island way. Posted 07/10/2008 at 5:38 PM | | ALERT US ABOUT THIS COMMENT Please let us know if this reader's comment breaks the rules explained in the and is obscene, abusive, threatening, unlawful, harassing, defamatory, profane or racially offensive by selecting the appropriate option to describe the problem. Do not use this to complain about comments that don't break the rules, for example those comments that you disagree with or contain spelling errors or multiple postings. Comment is inflammatory Comment is offensive Comment is advertising/spam Inside Track from Georgetown, PEI writes: All that I have to say is that for the previous two elections Lawrence MacAuley visited my place of employment with the Owner of the company and shook hands with everyone who worked there, but this year there was no sign of him. I guess the reason being is that Georgetown Timber is shut down along with NOFG pork plant and Pepsi bottling plant, thanks liberals. Posted 07/10/2008 at 5:41 PM | | ALERT US ABOUT THIS COMMENT Please let us know if this reader's comment breaks the rules explained in the and is obscene, abusive, threatening, unlawful, harassing, defamatory, profane or racially offensive by selecting the appropriate option to describe the problem. Do not use this to complain about comments that don't break the rules, for example those comments that you disagree with or contain spelling errors or multiple postings. Comment is inflammatory Comment is offensive Comment is advertising/spam Dirk franks from summerside, pa writes: Of course the liberals will win, a vote for the conservatives is for more war, 14 year olds jailed for life, deep cuts to the arts and no help for the ailing health care industry or relief at the fuel pumps. How can anyone vote for Gail Shea? Posted 07/10/2008 at 8:27 PM | | ALERT US ABOUT THIS COMMENT Please let us know if this reader's comment breaks the rules explained in the and is obscene, abusive, threatening, unlawful, harassing, defamatory, profane or racially offensive by selecting the appropriate option to describe the problem. Do not use this to complain about comments that don't break the rules, for example those comments that you disagree with or contain spelling errors or multiple postings. Comment is inflammatory Comment is offensive Comment is advertising/spam Big Red from pei writes: It appears that the only smart people on P.E.I. are the people from Egmont. We know the current Charlottetown Government is looking after Charlottetown and nothing more in this province. The carbon tax still has not being explain---I`ll take your money now and give it back later. Much thanks. Posted 07/10/2008 at 8:50 PM | | ALERT US ABOUT THIS COMMENT Please let us know if this reader's comment breaks the rules explained in the and is obscene, abusive, threatening, unlawful, harassing, defamatory, profane or racially offensive by selecting the appropriate option to describe the problem. Do not use this to complain about comments that don't break the rules, for example those comments that you disagree with or contain spelling errors or multiple postings. Comment is inflammatory Comment is offensive Comment is advertising/spam UP WEST from PEI writes: WAKE UP REMEMBER THE SCANDEL WHAT ABOUT THE CARBON TAX Posted 07/10/2008 at 10:27 PM | | ALERT US ABOUT THIS COMMENT Please let us know if this reader's comment breaks the rules explained in the and is obscene, abusive, threatening, unlawful, harassing, defamatory, profane or racially offensive by selecting the appropriate option to describe the problem. Do not use this to complain about comments that don't break the rules, for example those comments that you disagree with or contain spelling errors or multiple postings. Comment is inflammatory Comment is offensive Comment is advertising/spam NOTE The management of this site emphasizes that it is in no way liable for persons, physical or legal, who are hosted here. Moreover, the managers of this site may not be held liable for errors and omissions that may slip into the information displayed in these reader comments. Everyone who submits a comment should read, understand and agree to the for this section. Post a comment: First Name: * Last Name: City/Town: Province: * Email: * Use of an invalid email address may result in removal of the comment. Your email address will not be publicized. Comments: * I have read and agree to the Remember me? Check here to receive email updates on contests, promotions, and other important information from The Guardian. Recent local news : 08/10/08 12:36 AM 08/10/08 12:36 AM 08/10/08 12:36 AM 08/10/08 12:36 AM Past local news : The Guardian | Video-on-Demand TOP 10 ARTICLES READER FEEDBACK Who won the Cardigan candidate forum on EastLink, Tues. Oct. 7? Lawrence MacAulay - Liberal Larry McGuire - Independent Sid McMullin - Conservative Mike Avery - NDP | READER FEEDBACK Who won the Charlottetown candidate forum on EastLink, Tues. Oct. 7? Brian Pollard - NDP Shawn Murphy - Liberal Tom DeBlois - Conservative | The Guardian A division of Transcontinental Media Inc. 165 Prince St. - P.O. Box 760 - Charlottetown - Prince Edward Island - C1A 7L8 Contents of this website are copyright © The Guardian This site is part of the Transcontinental Media Network Search our newspapers: Daily Newspapers: Nova Scotia: ; ; ; . Prince Edward Island: ; . Newfoundland & Labrador: ; . Saskatchewan: ; . Weeklies and Specialty Publications: Nova Scotia: ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; New Brunswick: ; . Newfoundland & Labrador: ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; . Saskatchewan: . Consumer Magazines: ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; . Services: ; 