    Search Top two regular-season clubs among first-round busts Updated | Comment | Recommend | | | By Danny Moloshok, Reuters Chicago Cubs players stand in the dugout in the ninth inning as they are swept by the Dodgers in their first-round playoff series in Los Angeles. CLUTCH PERFORMANCES By Jorge L. Ortiz, USA TODAY Actor Jim Belushi, wearing a Chicago Cubs cap, was making his way out of Dodger Stadium after last weekend's National League Division Series finale when another Cubs fan patted him on the shoulder and said, "We'll get them next year." That refrain has become entirely too frequent for the teams that finished with the two best records in baseball this season. ELIMINATED: The Los Angeles Angels won 100 games for the first time in franchise history, finishing with a major league-best 100-62 mark, and they added slugger in July to help them avoid another October collapse. Yet they got bounced in four games by the Boston Red Sox, who have become their playoff nemesis by beating them in 12 of their last 13 meetings. The Angels have won four division crowns in the last five years but have made no World Series trips in that span and advanced past the first round once. "This is extremely disappointing," manager Mike Scioscia said. "Our expectations internally are higher than whatever the fans or the media might have for the club." As opposed to the Chicago White Sox, who had to play an extra game to get into the playoffs and were eliminated Monday by the Tampa Bay Rays, the Angels and Cubs had known for weeks they would play in the postseason. They had home-field advantage and time to set up the rotation. Still, they're going home without a ring, and for the Cubs (97-64 in the regular season), that makes 100 consecutive years of falling short. After the Los Angeles Dodgers swept them 3-0, first baseman acknowledged the burden the club bears. "No question there's a larger weight in Chicago," Lee said. "I hate to call it pressure, because it's hard to put more pressure than what we put on ourselves. But throughout the city, they want it badly." Contributing: Mel Antonen *** Chicago Cubs Chicago White Sox Los Angeles Angels Milwaukee Brewers The end Swept by the Los Angeles Dodgers. Lost to the Tampa Bay Rays in four games. Lost to the Boston Red Sox in four games. Lost to the Philadelphia Phillies in four games. What went wrong What didn't go wrong? The offense scored six runs in the three games and the pitching allowed 20 runs (15 earned) as the Cubs were swept in a division series for the second year in a row. LF Alfonso Soriano (1-for-14) and 3B Aramis Ramirez (2-for-11) were especially bad. A team that relies heavily on power was already at a disadvantage with LF Carlos Quentin's wrist injury. Then a pitching staff gassed from a do-or-die final week saw starters Javier Vazquez and Gavin Floyd fail to complete five innings. In being eliminated by the Red Sox for the third time in five years, the Angels failed to execute in the field or at the plate in key spots. They committed four errors, made several key mental mistakes and went 8-for-40 with runners in scoring position, leaving 43 runners on base. Ben Sheets' injury and CC Sabathia's gas tank running low left them with no suitable postseason starter. Streaky Prince Fielder hit a bad one, going hitless in 12 at-bats before a meaningless Game 4 homer. Free agents OF Jim Edmonds, IF/OF Daryle Ward, RHP Ryan Dempster, RHP Bobby Howry, RHP Kerry Wood. Team option: C Henry Blanco. SS Orlando Cabrera, 3B Joe Crede, IF Juan Uribe. Team option: OF Ken Griffey Jr., C Toby Hall. 1B Mark Teixeira, OF Juan Rivera, RHP Jon Garland, LHP Darren Oliver, RHP Francisco Rodriguez. Team option: OF Garret Anderson, OF Vladimir Guerrero, RHP John Lackey. RHP Sheets, LHP Sabathia, RHP Eric Gagne, RHP Guillermo Mota, 2B Ray Durham, LHP Brian Shouse, OF Gabe Kapler, IF Russell Branyan. Club option: OF Mike Cameron, RHP Salomon Torres, IF Craig Counsell. Big question What to do with Kosuke Fukudome? The outfielder, who is owed $38 million over the next three years, hit .217 in the second half and was not in the starting lineup for the final game of the playoffs, finishing 1-for-10. Who plays second and third base? Alexei Ramirez is expected to slide to shortstop to replace Cabrera, but with Crede also likely gone, GM Ken Williams might have to package power or pitching for infield help or find it on the free agent market. Has Anderson played his last game? After 14 years with the Angels, the team is unlikely to pick up his $14 million option. He's not the elite run producer he was from 2000 to 2003, but Anderson finished with 84 RBI and a .293 average, and the Angels need offense. Is it time for another mini-youth movement? Youngsters Alcides Escobar and Mat Gamel could quickly change the complexion of the infield, where incumbent 2B Rickie Weeks struggled again. Bigger question Re-sign Dempster? The right-hander was the team's best pitcher, going 17-6 with a 2.96 ERA. But at 31, Dempster threw 206 innings, the most for him since 2002, and could seek a lucrative contract. Can Ozzie Guillen trust Vazquez? After Guillen questioned the pitcher's big-game ability, Vazquez's September stumble and playoff flameout affirmed his manager's doubts. He's signed through 2010, so we could go through the same sequence next September. Who will be the closer? The Angels have many offseason issues, and re-signing Rodriguez might take a back seat. If the single-season save leader should leave, veteran Scot Shields, rookie Jose Arredondo or a mystery guest would probably enter spring training as the closer. Who is the manager? Dale Sveum, handed a 12-game audition, guided the Brewers to the wild card; owner Mark Attanasio and GM Doug Melvin have a decision to make after their impulsive decision to fire Ned Yost near season's end. Biggest question Who will buy the team? Bids, including one from Mark Cuban, were taken over the summer, and a new owner could be selected during the offseason. Where can they find run manufacturers? After relying heavily on the home run, the White Sox will seek a new dimension in the offseason. That might mean having to shed Jim Thome, Jermaine Dye or Paul Konerko to get more nimble. Where to spend? With Garland, Teixeira, Rodriguez and Anderson potentially free agents, the team will have about $47 million coming off the books but significant holes in the lineup, rotation and bullpen. Will Sabathia really consider staying in Milwaukee? Hard to imagine, but they'll always have September 2008. They said it "Let's stop talking about the World Series. We haven't gotten out of the Division Series. As soon as we get to spring training, it's the World Series. There's a lot of steps before the World Series." 1B Derrek Lee "When I look back on this year, I think we went exactly how far we were supposed to go with the injuries we had at the end." Konerko "It's a great organization, and I like it here. I just don't know what's going to happen. It's something that I have to think about." Teixeira "I'd be lying if I didn't say this was one of the better times of my career and my life. That will all factor into my decision this winter." Sabathia By Peter Barzilai and Gabe Lacques Posted Updated | | | To report corrections and clarifications, contact Reader Editor . For publication consideration in the newspaper, send comments to . Include name, phone number, city and state for verification. Guidelines: You share in the USA TODAY community, so please keep your comments smart and civil. Don't attack other readers personally, and keep your language decent. Use the "Report Abuse" button to make a difference. . • • • • • • • About USATODAY.com: | | | | | | | | News Your Way: | | | | | Partners: | | | Copyright 2008 USA TODAY, a division of 