        Weather Centre       9°C   Partly cloudy   Search for > Digital Products Inside the Leader-Post Weekly Sections Opinion Sports Classifieds Marketplace Announcements General Classifieds Enter our contests Your Leader-Post Letters   Get e-mail alerts when local news breaks and daily headlines from leaderpost.com Today's Leader Post Al Clarke was enjoying his Tuesday morning typing on his computer until he heard...   Latest News Local aboriginal comedy troupe gets TV pilot Kerry Benjoe, Leader-Post Published: Tuesday, October 07, 2008 REGINA -- A local aboriginal comedy troupe is all set to take its brand of comedy national and is currently taping a pilot for the Aboriginal Peoples Television Network (APTN). "We mix stand-up with sketch comedy and we deal with aboriginal content," said Cory Generoux, one of the Bionic Bannock Boys' writers and performers. "We basically just have fun with our own identity and poke fun of who we are and make people laugh." The four-member group was established about seven years ago but it wasn't until a couple years ago that its members started taking their comedy seriously, said Generoux. Font: "It was probably over a year ago when we started talking to broadcasters about doing a sketch comedy pilot or a sketch comedy series," said Generoux. He said it was not an easy task. Back in January 2007 APTN expressed an interest in the idea because it was something the network had not done before. "What they wanted us to do was do a pilot just to see how it would work, how it would flow, how the audience would take to it and things of that nature," said Generoux. However he said financing such a project proved to be much more difficult than the Bionic Bannock Boys had thought. "Circumstances and certain funding sources did not completely work out because of the nature of what we were trying to do with APTN. It's not every day you're doing sketch comedy so we got delayed there for a little bit," said Generoux. He said the group was determined to find a way to share its humour with a broader audience. "Most of our humour is adult humour," said Generoux. "People aren't used to aboriginal people being funny in a rank way, but as an aboriginal person everyone I know is funny in a rank way. We tell dirty jokes and lame jokes and it's hilarious." He said for the pilot the troupe has decided to tone it down and many of the props that have appeared in its stand-up comedy performances will not be in the pilot. Although the pilot is geared for a television audience, Generoux insists the group has not given up any of its raw sense of humour. "Kokums hate us but moshums love us," he said about their type of humour. Generoux sees the opportunity to reach a national audience as a way to make even more people laugh. "I don't hope for fame or fortune or anything like that. We originally started as a group of guys getting together, having loads of fun but wanting to share that with other people," he said. The other members of the comedy troupe are Keon Francis, Sean Dean and Neal McLeod. Desiree Single, APTN manager of programming for the central region, said this was not the first sketch comedy that was considered by the network. "Sketch comedy appeals to a wide audience and is a great addition to our line of programming," said Single. "We expect this to be a highly entertaining and a great addition to the schedule of programs." Generoux said that the pilot is still in the production phase and he is unsure of an exact air date. More information on APTN can be found online (www.aptn.ca). © Leader-Post 2008 Ads by Google Inside the . Hard pressed to find good helping...   A quarter of the world's mammals...     EBay Inc plans to cut its work...     The Canadian actress talks about...     Eric Nofsinger is betting that...     A hilarious and sacrilegious documentary...     Believe it or not, the majority...     Newspapers: Television: Marketplace: Canwest Countries: © 2005 - 2008 Canwest Digital Media, a division of . All rights reserved. Unauthorized distribution, transmission or republication strictly prohibited. 