  Text Size One dead, 3 injured in tank explosion at Campbell Industrial Park Posted: Updated: Email alerts from KHNL By Zahid Arab - | CAMPBELL INDUSTRIAL PARK (KHNL) - One man was killed and three others were hospitalized following an explosion at an oil recycling company at Campbell Industrial Park. A 9,500 gallon tank exploded around 1:30 p.m., said fire officials. The 30 foot waste oil tank was on Philip Service Corporation property when it blew up. Fire officials said four subcontracted workers were preparing to recycle waste oil right before the explosion. Once it exploded, police said one of the men was thrown into the bed of a pickup truck. Emergency responders found a 20-year-old man dead and the three others were rushed to a nearby hospital in stable condition. Honolulu Fire Department Captain Terry Seelig said,"We discovered two people immediately and started treating them and learned there were a couple other people unaccounted for. We searched and found them." The explosion took a toll on everybody, with one man dead and others being treated at a nearby hospital. "It's very hard, especially when it comes to someone's life. It's very difficult," said health and safety manager, Ray Luavasa. The company said this has never happened before and added that their workers go through extensive safety training; but they cannot speculate on practices performed by the subcontracted workers. Luavasa added, "It's not a dangerous process at all, but once again as you can see, what took place it is what it is." It is not known how much product was in the tank at the time, meanwhile as investigators look into the exact cause of the explosion. Philip Service Corporation said it stands by its safety measures. "We're a safe running company. We're careful in what we do. We're very concerned for the public as well as our neighbors," said Luavasa. In addition to the cause, investigators will look to see if safety and health standards were followed. Meanwhile, the company said it plans to reopen Wednesday. One dead, 3 injured in tank explosion at Campbell Indu... Comments Terms of Use: We welcome your participation in our community. Please keep your comments civil and on point. Notify us of any inappropriate comments by clicking the Mark as Offensive link. You must be at least 13 years of age to post comments. By submitting a comment, you agree to these You must be logged in to leave a comment. Talk Story National News All content © Copyright 2000 - 2008 WorldNow and KHNL, a station. All Rights Reserved. For more information on this site, please read our and . 