    Site Web Search powered by YAHOO! SEARCH Subscribe to RSS headline updates from: Powered by FeedBurner Subscribe to RSS headline updates from: Powered by FeedBurner Font Resize Paradise's Brandon Jones kicks in go-ahead goal against Foothill Article Launched: 10/07/2008 01:00:00 AM PDT The Paradise High School boys varsity soccer team split last week's Eastern Athletic League games, beating Foothill Friday while dropping Wednesday's game at home to Chico. Bobcats 3, Foothill 2 Paradise dominated most of Friday's game on the road against Foothill, but similar to previous outings, the Bobcats couldn't finish and the Cougars capitalized off that by tying the game at two late in the second half. Paradise would break its reputation after junior Brandon Jones followed senior J.J. Bautista's shot off the post and through the top shelf of the net with 30 seconds remaining to defeat Foothill, 3-2 in Palo Cedro. Paradise, (4-5-1, 3-2-1 EAL) hosts Red Bluff at Paradise Intermediate School on Friday in what Paradise High coach Doug Carroll called a defining game for his team. Red Bluff nearly came back from three goals down to defeat Paradise early this season. "I'm looking for a good game at home Friday and hoping not to let Red Bluff back in the game," Carroll said. In the victory over Foothill, Bautista and Jones each finished with a goal and assist, totaling three points while senior Josh McGlothlin recorded a goal on a corner kick against the Cougars. Chico 9, Paradise 0 Chico thoroughly controlled Wednesday's game against Paradise, defeating the Bobcats, 9-0 at Paradise Intermediate School. However, Carroll said while Chico deserves a lot credit, Paradise didn't play to its ability. "We didn't play to our ability as a Advertisement whole team," Carroll said. "Not to take credit away from Chico, but we should have played them much closer." Carroll said Chico's first goal was the result of a defensive mistake by his team, and then things compounded after that. Paradise's Jones was the lone Bobcat to play a consistent game throughout against Chico. POST YOUR COMMENTS: Copyright © 2008 - Paradise Post MediaNews Group - Northern California Network | | | | | | Special Sections: | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 