    | | | | | | | | | | | | | FEDERAL RESERVE MAKES EMERGENCY CUT TO KEY INTEREST RATE BY HALF-POINT TO 1.5 PERCENT > Gates: U.S. to Remain in Kosovo Through Late 2009 Gates Says U.S. to Remain in Kosovo at Least Through Late 2009 Despite Russian Opposition By LOLITA C. BALDOR Associated Press Writer PRISTINA, Kosovo October 7, 2008 (AP) The Associated Press FONT SIZE File photo of a soldier walking in front of wooden huts at Camp Bondsteel, the main base for U.S. forces in Kosovo. At the time it was built, the camp was the biggest the U.S. had built since the Vietnam War. (Hazir Reka/REUTERS) The United States will continue its troop presence in Kosovo until at least late next year, Defense Secretary Robert Gates said just before he arrived here Tuesday, reaffirming U.S. support for the newly declared nation in the face of stern opposition from Russia. Later Tuesday, while standing with the president and prime minister of Kosovo, Gates said that in meetings with the leaders he reaffirmed the pledge that President Bush made — that "we came in together and we will go out together." He said they talked about maintaining the current troop levels, and said the U.S. is focused on providing services, equipment and training for the new ministry and the Kosovo security forces. Gates added that there also is funding in the Pentagon's 2009 budget for military education and training programs for Kosovo, although he was not sure what specifically would be provided for Kosovo. Related He added that the U.S. looks "forward to the day when peace is self-sustaining." Gates' visit marked the first time a U.S. Cabinet member has been to Kosovo since the country declared its independence in February. And it underscored the escalating tensions between NATO allies and Moscow as Eastern European nations increasingly look to the West. Kosovo President Fatmir Sejdiu said that while fewer than 50 nations have recognized Kosovo — just half of the country's goal — he believes that other countries, including Macedonia and Montenegro, have given him "positive signals." Earlier, Gates said his main goal on this trip was to meet with U.S. troops serving in Kosovo as part of coalition of more than 30 nations, with a force of roughly 15,000. There currently are about 1,600 U.S. troops in Kosovo. The last time a U.S. defense secretary was here was Donald H. Rumsfeld in June 2001. At that time, U.S. and NATO peacekeepers were struggling to halt the flow of weapons across the border into Macedonia. Soldiers watched for mule trains hauling the supplies across the border to aid Ethnic Albanian rebels who were fighting the Macedonian government. 1 | SHARE UPLOAD Comment & Contribute Welcome to ABCNews.com. Javascript is not enabled on your browser. Please enable javascript to use the community features on this page. If your browser does not support javascript, please visit our for a list of supported web browsers. Watch Video International News Slideshows Top Stories ABC News to Go Viewed Commented Emailed ABC News Features | | | | | | | | | | | External links are provided for reference purposes. ABC News is not responsible for the content of external internet sites. Copyright © 2008 ABCNews Internet Ventures 