    Primary Navigation Secondary Navigation Search: Mauritania braces for anti-coup protest Sun Oct 5, 11:50 AM ET NOUAKCHOTT (AFP) - Security forces in Mauritania were braced Sunday for a demonstration against the military leadership as pro-democracy parties insisted an anti-coup protest would go ahead despite a ban. "We are determined to protest peacefully, if the government decides to intervene to stop the march that will be its responsibility," Ahmedou Ould Wedia, spokesman for the coalition of political parties who called the march, told AFP Sunday. The protest, due to start at 4:00 pm local time (1600 GMT), a day before an African Union (AU) deadline for the country's military rulers to reinstate the ousted president. The August 6 coup was widely condemned by the international community and the AU has issued an ultimatum for the junta to return ousted president Sidi Ould Cheikh Abdallahi to power "no later than Monday October 6". Ould Cheikh Abdallahi, Mauritania's first democratically-elected president, has been held under house arrest since the coup. Last week the west African country 's junta-appointed prime minister , Moulaye Ould Mohamed Leghdaf, banned public demonstrations, saying Mauritanians had "protested enough". However the National Front for the Defence of Democracy, a coalition of five political parties opposed to the coup, vowed the march would go ahead in defiance of the ban. Abdallahi was ousted hours after he issued a decree firing the Mauritanian military's top brass, including junta leader Mohamed Ould Abdel Aziz, who was the commander of the presidential guard . Since the coup the junta has taken over the powers of the president and formed a new government with the support of a majority of the deputies in parliament. The new leadership has promised to hold elections quickly but no date has been set and parliament has voted to delay a presidential vote by at least a year. RECOMMEND THIS STORY Recommend It: Average ( Not Rated ) AP AP AP AP AP AP AP AP AP The Christian Science Monitor Australia 7 News - 33 minutes ago AFP - 47 minutes ago Reuters - 1 hour, 16 minutes ago BBC - 1 hour, 37 minutes ago Mauritanian junta-appointed prime minister, Moulaye Ould Mohamed Leghdaf, is seen here in Nouakchott in August... World Video News Search Related Searches: Elsewhere on the Web Time.com: McClatchy Newspapers: ABC News: Yahoo! Autos See the latest Land Rover vehicles on Yahoo! Autos. NEWS ALERTS Get an alert when there are new stories about: prime minister African Union Sidi Ould Cheikh Abdallahi Mauritania presidential guard - - Search: Primary Navigation Copyright © 2008 . All rights reserved. The information contained in the AFP News report may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed without the prior written authority of Agence France Presse. 