    Primary Navigation Secondary Navigation Search: Piepoli, Schumacher positive at Tour de France By SAMUEL PETREQUIN, Associated Press Writer Mon Oct 6, 5:14 PM ET PARIS - Italian cyclist Leonardo Piepoli twice tested positive for a blood booster during the last Tour de France, officials said Monday, and German cyclist Stefan Schumacher's team suspended him for suspected use of the same substance. The two became the second and third riders to test positive for CERA, an advanced version of the blood booster EPO, during the July Tour. Italian cyclist Riccardo Ricco has already admitted to CERA use. The three riders combined to win five of the 21 stages at cycling's premier race, which has struggled to maintain its credibility after being rocked by doping scandals three years in a row. Several riders previously tested positive during this year's race, which was won by Carlos Sastre of Spain. Some sponsors and television companies ended their deals and others followed after this year's Tour. The French Anti-Doping Agency has been retesting blood samples from the race in a bid to catch more cyclists they suspect may have used CERA. The original urine tests had cast a shadow over several riders but proved inconclusive. This year's Tour was run under the auspices of the French cycling federation. It will be responsible for eventually revising the results of this year's race after disciplinary procedures are completed against any riders found to have cheated, Tour organizers said Monday. Italian and French officials said Piepoli tested positive before and during the Tour, and the Italian Olympic Committee (CONI) said he has been summoned for a hearing Friday. If found guilty of doping, he would face a two-year ban. Piepoli was fired by Saunier Duval with teammate Ricco, four days after winning the punishing 10th stage through the Pyrenees. Piepoli was accused of violating the team's "ethical code," but Monday marked the first time officials confirmed he had tested positive. The Italian committee and the French Anti-Doping Agency said Piepoli failed tests for CERA on July 4, the day before the tour, and July 15, the day after his stage victory. Pierre Bordry, head of the agency, confirmed he notified CONI of Piepoli's positive tests. Ricco, Piepoli's former Saunier Duval teammate, was banned for two years by CONI last week after admitting to doping during the Tour. Ricco won the sixth and ninth stages of the Tour in spectacular fashion — the second victory coming with a long solo breakaway on one of the race's toughest mountain stages . Also Monday, Hans-Michael Holczer , the head of Schumacher's Gerolsteiner team, said he had received confirmation from the Tour's director that the cyclist had tested positive for CERA. He said he had suspended the rider immediately. Bordry could not immediately confirm the result. Germany's cycling federation said it would move to take action against Schumacher, who won both individual time trials at the Tour and held the race lead for two days. He finished 25th overall. ___ Associated Press writer Geir Moulson in Berlin contributed to this report. RECOMMEND THIS STORY Recommend It: Average ( Not Rated ) AP AP AP AP AP AP AP Reuters AP AP AP - Tue Oct 7, 2:41 AM ET CNN - Tue Oct 7, 3:15 PM ET Yahoo! Sports - Mon Oct 6, 6:00 PM ET AP - Tue Oct 7, 2:19 PM ET In this July 14 2008 file photo Leonardo Piepoli of Italy reacts on the podium... Sports Video News Search Related Searches: Yahoo! News Topic Pages Get in-depth coverage on topics such as the and . Elsewhere on the Web ABC News: ABC News: ABC News: Yahoo! Autos Take a tour of the new 3 series Coupe on Yahoo! Autos. Yahoo! Real Estate Now is a great time to buy! Search listings at Yahoo! Real Estate. NEWS ALERTS Get an alert when there are new stories about: mountain stages Leonardo Piepoli Hans-Michael Holczer Italian Olympic Committee Carlos Sastre - - Search: Primary Navigation Copyright © 2008 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. The information contained in the AP News report may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed without the prior written authority of The Associated Press. 