          Web site of the Daily Star, Hammond, Louisiana :: Search Archives: Search Classifieds: Little guys rule in Hammond Jamboree | | | Text Size Friday, August 29, 2008 10:16 AM CDT SACK ATTACK—St. Thomas Aquinas defensive end Cullen Hughes takes down Ponchatoula quarterback Eldrid Palmer as STA’s Travis Gregory closes in to help from behind during Friday’s opening contest in the Hammond Jamboree. Palmer hit a big touchdown pass early, but the Falcons dominated after that to score a 14-7 victory over the Green Wave. Photo by John Lenz St. Thomas Aquinas gave Ponchatoula first dibs on the football by deferring its coin flip option in Thursday's Hammond Jamboree, and the Wave made that look like a bad idea for a while. Ponchatoula promptly drove 74 yards to score and take a 7-0 lead less than two minutes into the contest. But after that, the Falcons had their way with the Green Wave, overcoming a turnover on their first drive and scoring two unanswered touchdowns to take a 14-7 victory. Big plays played a key role for the Falcons. Quarterback Raymone Andrews connected with Blake Brooks for a 34-yard completion to set up the tying touchdown, a 7-yard run by Brandon Lorio. And the Falcons posted what proved to be the winning points on their opening drive of the second half with a 53-yard touchdown bomb from Andrews to Brooks, capping an 80-yard march that also included a 21-yard Lorio run on 3rd-and-6. ADVERTISEMENT “The passing game, when we used it, it was there," STA coach John White said. “It was much sharper tonight when we did use it. We're not one-dimensional, but when you're getting four or five yards per carry, the runs definitely set up the pass tonight.” Ponchatoula had a big play of its own to score as quarterback Eldrid Palmer found Timothy Shepard on a slant for a 48-yard touchdown pass to cap the Greenies’ five-play, 74-yard opening march. St. Thomas drove to the Green Wave 29 before coughing up a fumble that Zachary Stevenson recovered for Ponchatoula. The Wave picked up a couple of first downs and reached the Falcon 40 but was stuffed on 4th-and-1. And from there, the tide turned and Ponchatoula could never regain the momentum. After halftime, the Wave managed to hold the ball for just a little over 6 1/2 mionutes of the 15-minute period. "I thought in the first half we did a pretty good job; we didn't get much chance in that second half,” Wave coach Mike Baiamonte said. “But I'm not happy with mistakes. We've got to find a way to limit them.” The Green Wave defense gave Ponchatoula a final chance when Anthony Parazzo pounced on another Falcon fumble at the PHS 29 to thwart a scoring threat. Palmer produced a couple of first-down scrambles, but a penalty and a muffed pitch killed the drive and the Wave had to punt away its last chance with 2:29 to play. “I was expecting us to play a little better than we did,” Baiamonte said. “We've got to find a way to limit mistakes and we've got to find a way to limit big plays. Two weeks in a row big plays hurt us. Two weeks in a row mistakes at the wrong time hurt us.” White said the play of his defense was key. “Defensively, we did a very good job against that veer and midline,” White said. “We played good assignment ball. You can't be too aggressive. You'd better do your technique. “We went against a real strong offensive line and I think we held our own. We gave up a big play early on, but we didn't fold. We knew what to do; we've been behind before, so there was no panic. Last year panic would have been everywhere.” “We blew a few assignments, but nothing really major,” said White, whose team opens the season at Kentwood next Friday. “I'm disappointed in the way we put the ball on the ground, but it's a jamboree.” Baiamonte said he and the rest of his staff have their work cut out for them heading into the opener at Woodlawn in Baton Rouge. “We've got to put our kids in better positions and we've got to make them feel more confident in their abilities to eliminate mistakes,” Baiamonte said. “It boils down to coaching. I think our kids competed. They competed well, we just probably didn't compete enough and that's just something that comes with a little more confidence.” —Reported by John Lenz Springfield topples Tors in Hammond Jam Springfield head coach Ryan Serpas had two goals he wanted his team to accomplish against Hammond in the Hammond Jamboree Thursday night — to come together on both sides of the ball and to contain the Tors' running game. The Bulldogs did both in coming away with a 12-7 victory at Tornado Alley when Kevin Henderson hit Johnathon Quinn on a 10-yard touchdown slant with 6:41 remaining. "I think we came together and corrected the mistakes that we made in the scrimmage defensively," Serpas said. "Offensively, we kind of looked like we were nervous in the beginning but as the game got into the flow, we started to settle down and make the plays I know we can make." It was mistakes — a fumble inside the 10 that led to the winning score — and penalties that cost Hammond after it took an early 7-0 lead. "Mental mistakes that are done everyday on the practice field," Hammond head coach Rusty Barrilleaux said. "These coaches are doing a great job out there and it is up to these guys to realize they have to put it on the field, that we can't be out there with them. Until they realize that, we're not going to be able to do what we have to do to win ballgames." Leading 7-6, Tors quarterback Trevor Ragan fumbled a snap on third-and-34 from the Hammond 10-yard line after the Tors were penalized for holding and unsportsmanlike conduct. Quinn recovered for the Bulldogs at the 8 with 7:43 left. After a defensive pass interference call in the end zone on third down and an illegal procedure, Quinn took Henderson's pass over the middle and twisted in for the score. Springfield held Hammond at the Tors 34 on the ensuing drive and was able to run out the final 5:30. A block from fullback Justin Betts sprung Torian Weber on a 42-yard run around the left side, giving Hammond a 7-0 lead with 6:17 remaining in the first half. An 11-yard pass from Ragan to Abram Taylor kept the drive alive on third-and-10 from the Tors 28. "Nothing that we didn't do all night," Barrilleaux said of the difference on the touchdown run. We just did it right. Everybody did their job and we performed. That is the way it should be. It's no secret we can do it if we come out and execute what we've been taught." Springfield answered with an 11-play, 80-yard drive. Henderson had a 33-yard run off the left side, then capped the drive with a 4-yard scamper with 23 seconds left in the half. "Our kids showed a lot of character," Serpas said. We're a small 2A school and we like the chance to compete against a 5A school like this. It was a good opportunity for us to come out here and put our best foot forward and the kids performed well. That is all I can ask for." — Reported by Mike Kiral Comment Blog - Note: All Comments Subject To Approval Comments are limited to 200 words or less. (optional) Current Word Count:   COMMENT RULES Comment posters are responsible for the opinions they express and the accuracy of the information they provide. We urge comment writers to treat this as a public forum where manners matter. We encourage a collegial, non-insulting tone. Be aware, in accordance with the Communications Decency Act and provisions upheld in judicial appeal, that you are responible for comments posted on this Web site. Do not post: Potentially libelous statements or damaging innuendo. Obscene, explicit, or racist language. Personal attacks, insults or threats. The use of another person's real name to disguise your identity. Comments unrelated to the story. If you believe that a commenter has not followed these guidelines, please use our online . Thank you for your comments! Copyright © 2008 Hammond Daily Star - www.hammondstar.com. All rights reserved. | Unathorized reproduction is prohibited. Read our 