          Web site of the Daily Star, Hammond, Louisiana :: Search Archives: Search Classifieds: Four local teams at home for first-round | | | Text Size By Fred Batiste Wednesday, February 13, 2008 10:15 AM CST ALEXANDRIA - The 10 area teams that qualified for the playoffs found out Tuesday where their respective roads to the 2008 Ladies Top 28 begin - thanks to the votes of participating coaches in seeding meetings at Alexandria Senior High. As a result of the seeding, four of the 10 - Ponchatoula, St. Thomas Aquinas, Albany and Holden - will open the playoffs at home Thursday night while Hammond, Amite, Loranger, Kentwood, Doyle and Maurepas hit the road in the bi-district round. "Under the old system, you probably knew who you'd be playing maybe a week or two before the season ended," said STA athletics director John White, who cast the ballot for his Lady Falcons team. "This now brings some excitement with the playoffs like how football does it with the pairings." Coaches had to rank qualifying teams from 1-31, excluding their own, to determine the 32-team fields in the seven basketball-playing classifications. The LHSAA will adopt a power rating system for basketball next season, a similar system it uses to determine its football playoff participants. In Class 5A, third-ranked Ponchatoula (31-5) enters the playoffs as the area's highest-seeded team. The District 7-5A champion drew the 5A bracket's No. 3 seed and will entertain a very familiar opponent in No. 30 seed Northshore (18-9). Northshore finished fourth in 7-5A and qualified for one of Class 5A's two wild card spots. ADVERTISEMENT Lady Wave head coach Justin Adams said he felt the pairings reflected what most coaches thought throughout the year. There were not too many people complaining - except a slight grumbling from Adams when he learned his team would have to play the Lady Panthers a third time for the second straight year. The teams split the 4-5A title last year, but Ponchatoula won the tiebreaker game prior to the playoffs. "It's hard to beat someone three times in a year. We proved that last year," Adams said. "We have to go prepare for Northshore like we were playing Southwood. If you make one mistake here, you're going home. I don't like playing a team out of your district in the first round, but it went pretty well overall." Meanwhile, Hammond (19-9) finished third in 7-5A drew the No. 24 seed. The Lady Tors and will head to Giesmar to face No. 9 seed Dutchtown (24-9), the 6-5A champion and the LSWA's seventh-ranked 5A club. "Looking at it, our record was better than 24th, but you've got to beat good teams to advance anyway," Hammond head coach Tommy Morrison said. "If we're lucky enough to get by this one, we play with winner of the Denham Springs-Sulphur game. If we're lucky enough to get that far, then there's a slight possibility of us playing Southwood. In Class 3A, District 10-3A champion Albany (22-11) gets the No. 15 seed and will host No. 18 seed Redemptorist (18-7), the 8-3A runner-up. Lady Hornets head coach Amanda Faust said the process for selecting the 3A brackets was long, but the end result of a first-round home playoff game is not bad. “I don't feel like everybody knew everything about everyone else to vote fairly,” Faust said. “I think it's going to be a good game, and the advantage of having that home game and not having to travel is going to help.” No. 21-seeded Loranger (18-13), the 10-3A runner-up, travels to take on No. 12 seed Franklin (20-10) for the second time in three years. Franklin blasted the Lady Wolves 98-52 in the 2006 Class 3A quarterfinals. “It (the process) was long, five hours to be exact,” Loranger head coach Amy Willie said. “I'm new to this process as well. They say it'll get better with time. I'm sure it will.” No. 22-seeded Amite (15-8), which had the best record of 3A's eight wild-card qualifiers, will head to Tallulah to face No. 11 seed Madison Parish (23-6), the 1-3A runner-up. The Lady Warriors and the school formerly known as McCall has some playoff history, meeting in the 3A semifinals in Alexandria in 1995 and 1996. McCall defeated Amite 45-33 in ‘95 and 63-55 in ‘96. “Madison comes from a strong district and they have a strong tradition from the old McCall,” Lady Warriors head coach Joe English said. “I like to play different people. The key is if you have a good team, you get a chance to play some new people if you keep winning.” In Class 2A, ninth-ranked St. Thomas Aquinas (22-10) gets the No. 10 seed after winning District 9-2A and will play host to No. 23-seeded Jeanerette (14-16), the 7-2A runner-up. White said he did not know what to expect, but he felt the coaches were fair with their rankings. “They have some good teams, obviously, in the playoffs,” White said. “We don't know much about our opponent or anyone else. We're playing good basketball heading into the playoffs.” In other 2A action, No. 22 seed Doyle (14-12) will travel to DeRidder to take on No. 11-seeded East Beauregard (19-9). In Class 1A, No. 28 seed Kentwood (14-10) finished third in District 7-1A and will head north to face sixth-ranked, and No. 5-seeded Plain Dealing (20-6). Lady Roos head coach Rochel Bates said the playoff berth means a lot to his program, and it also shows that his team played in a tough district. Four of 7-1A's five teams earned playoff spots. “We're No. 28, which is not bad,” Bates said. “It could be worse, we could be at home.” In Class B, fifth-ranked Holden (25-9) is seeded seventh and will entertain No. 26 seed Bethany Christian (16-9) while No. 28 seed Maurepas (14-18) will travel to take on seventh-ranked and No. 5-seeded Hathaway (31-8). “It was really exciting to be a part of something that has never been done before,” Holden head coach Pam Forbes said. “It was neat to be a part of history. It'll be like like this again starting next year.” Comment Blog - Note: All Comments Subject To Approval Comments are limited to 200 words or less. (optional) Current Word Count:   COMMENT RULES Comment posters are responsible for the opinions they express and the accuracy of the information they provide. We urge comment writers to treat this as a public forum where manners matter. We encourage a collegial, non-insulting tone. Be aware, in accordance with the Communications Decency Act and provisions upheld in judicial appeal, that you are responible for comments posted on this Web site. Do not post: Potentially libelous statements or damaging innuendo. Obscene, explicit, or racist language. Personal attacks, insults or threats. The use of another person's real name to disguise your identity. Comments unrelated to the story. If you believe that a commenter has not followed these guidelines, please use our online . Thank you for your comments! Copyright © 2008 Hammond Daily Star - www.hammondstar.com. All rights reserved. | Unathorized reproduction is prohibited. Read our 