    Miller to attend PASO meeting By KELSIE JOHNSON, NG Sports Reporter Ask any executive member of the Bahamas Olympic Association (BOA) what their main goal is and the answers appear to be on the same accord: "It's all about the athletes." President Wellington Miller made this clear over the weekend as he refuted claims that the newly elected members will 'push' their own federation or association's agenda, instead of trying to better sports in the country. In fact, Miller, who will be leaving the country to attend a congressional meeting for all regional Olympic Movement heads, explained that having federation presidents sitting on the executive board will only boost sports in The Bahamas. Miller is also the President of the Amateur Boxing Federation of the Bahamas. He is expected to leave for the Pan American Sporting Organization (PASO) congressional meeting today. The convention is set to be held from October 8-15. "This is the meeting that will set the agenda for this region, so The Bahamas will be able to benefit from this," said Miller. "From this, we will be able to find ways to provide scholarships for all persons in every discipline. We will be able to apply for money for the Olympic association so we can set up a better office so we can better serve the people and athletes of The Bahamas." Miller is hoping to present The Bahamas as one of the countries ready to make a change for better for the athletes. He explained that the movement is for the BOA and the athletes and that they will be the beneficiaries of all projects. When Miller returns, the BOA will host a week-long convention to discuss ways in which they can improve the various Olympic sports in the country. No date or venue has been finalized for the convention. However, Miller hinted that the convention can be held some time in November. He said: "We have to promote sports like we should. We just can't have athletes coming in and there are no officials so this is one of the mandates we are now trying to set in place. The things learned at the convention will benefit all, from the executive level down to the athletes. "We will implement some of the things learned at the congress in our daily operation. We believe this will push us a step further. The convention will give us the opportunity to interact with the federation heads, those who are not a part of the association as well as those who are." The association will be looking to add other Olympic sports such as gymnastics, shooting and table tennis to their programs. The latest addition to the BOA was wrestling.  
