      | | Tuesday, October 07, 2008 In The Community, With The Community, For the Community | | LCVA Earns State Promotion Award (Created: Thursday, October 2, 2008 5:06 PM EDT ) | Text Size | | | ( No comments posted. ) | Photo Courtesy of Bill Crabtree, Virginia Tourism Corporation: Loudoun Convention & Visitors Association President and CEO Cheryl Kilday receives the Virginia Tourism Corporation "Passionate about Spreading the Word" award for its community awareness program from Virginia Deputy Secretary of Commerce and Trade David Smith. The Loudoun Convention & Visitors Association has won the Virginia Tourism Corporation "Passionate about Spreading the Word" award for its community awareness program, according to a press release from the LCVA. Virginia Tourism Corporation President Alisa Bailey presented the award to LCVA President and CEO Cheryl Kilday at the recent VA-1 Conference in Roanoke. Bailey congratulated Kilday and her staff for "an outstanding job of marketing the Loudoun area, not only to outside visitors but to local residents as well," calling the Loudoun agency "an integral part of the greater tourism team of Virginia." The community awareness campaign sought as its major initiative to make Loudoun's residents and businesses aware of the benefits of tourism to their quality of life and to the local economy. By introducing residents to the LCVA, the association endeavored to show them how to utilize the many services available to help increase visitation through visiting friends and relatives, as well as meetings and events. Key messages focusing on the agency's mission were incorporated into a direct mail campaign targeting every household in the county. The messages included "Tourism Works For You," "Loudoun County Thrives On Tourism," and "Loudoun County: Where We meet." Additionally, three six-inch by nine-inch, four-page color mailings with Loudoun scenes were sent to 110,000 Loudoun households at regular intervals over four weeks in the late spring. A business focus mailing also was sent to more than 9,000 businesses in the county. To top the effort, full-page, four-color print advertisements reflecting the design qualities of the direct mail campaign were placed in seven Loudoun newspapers, also over a one-month period in the late spring. The campaign encouraged recipients to phone the LCVA or visit its Web site at for information and free planning assistance. Kilday said the response to the campaign has been positive, with increased Web site traffic and more enquiries at the LCVA office in Leesburg. For more information, contact Kilday at 703-771-2170, ext. 15, or e-mail her at . Video Comments Reader Comments The following are comments from the readers. In no way do they represent the view of Leesburg Today. Total Comments: No comments posted. You must register with a valid email to post comments. Only your member ID will be posted with the comments. Registered users sign in here: Become a Registered User *Member ID: *Password: Remember login? ( Do not use usernames or passwords from your financial accounts! Note: Fields marked with an asterisk (*) are required! *Create a Member ID: *Choose a password: *Re-enter password: *E-mail Address: *Year of Birth: (children under 13 cannot register) *First Name: *Last Name: *Zip Code: More Loudoun Business Headlines: | | | | | | | | | Copyright © 2008 Leesburg Today 