    News Web Services Classified Advertising Subscribe Now! Contact Wednesday October 08, 2008 • Baht/$ 34.46/51 (Bid/Ask) GOLD 14100 +450 One-Two-Go set to fly again Final approvals due from regulator BOONSONG KOSITCHOTETHANA The budget carrier One-Two-Go Airlines is expected to resume flights around mid-November after passing stringent safety and operational audits by the Department of Civil Aviation (DCA) now in the final stage. The airline's embattled founder Udom Tantiprasongchai yesterday confirmed that it would be flying again after securing the Air Operator Certificate, which was suspended for 90 days to Oct 20. He saw no cause that may hinder the DCA from giving back the licence to One-Two-Go as the airline has complied with all requirements, many of them new, to which it was subjected. A senior DCA official said One-Two-Go had only a few points in its flight operation manual to be adjusted, a process which is likely to be completed by Oct 20. The DCA grounded One-Two-Go after discovering sub-standard safety standards, a lack of proper airline management, and falsification of documents by some pilots who misstated their level of aviation proficiency. The suspension took place as a wave of litigation against One-Two-Go was gathering force. More families of the victims killed in the Sept 16, 2007 Phuket crash have joined others to pursue legal action in the US courts for billions of baht in compensation claims. A One-Two-Go MD-82 jetliner crashed in strong winds and heavy rain after attempting to land at Phuket International Airport, leaving 89 dead and 41 injured. The flights which One-Two-Go will resume are those on domestic trunk routes, from Bangkok to Chiang Mai and Phuket. While details of the flight resumption have yet to be finalised, Mr Udom said there was no plan to change the name and logo of the airline in spite of negative publicity from the 2007 crash and subsequent safety questions. He said the airline was considering substituting some of its MD 80 series jetliners with the more fuel-efficient Boeing 737-800s in the future. The renewed political troubles in Bangkok yesterday, as well as turmoil in global financial markets, have complicated the resumption of One-Two-Go flights, as it is more difficult to project market demand. Airlines are already feeling the pinch of slowdown in traffic, especially on domestic routes, and has hardly recovered from the previous peak of the turmoil that happened last month, he noted. "We can't really count on the forthcoming high season to recoup lost business if the situation in Thailand remains disastrous as it is," Mr Udom said. © The Post Publishing Public Co., Ltd. 1996-2008 Comments to: Advertising enquiries to: Printed display ad enquiries to: Full contact details: / 