    Also see: | Also see: Also see: | | | » » » » » » » FEATURES NEED HELP? FAQ PARTNER SITES : : : | THIS STORY Pressure cant stop bleeding Packers defense allows Ryan to stay untouched By BOB McGINN Posted: Oct. 5, 2008 Green Bay - When Atlanta coach Mike Smith made the rounds late Sunday morning at Lambeau Field, he couldn't help marveling at the pregame bearing of his rookie quarterback, Matt Ryan. Packers/NFL Photo/ Falcons QB Matt Ryan heads to the turf to conclude a 17-yard run in the fourth quarter, with Charles Woodson (center) and Will Blackmon giving chase. Ryan also threw for 194 yards and two touchdowns. Related Coverage Packers fail to stop Falcons down stretch Falcons 27, Packers 24 QB passes on sitting out Pressure can't stop bleeding Infractions costing more than yards Falcons WR turns in big day Onside misfire ends rally hopes Player of the game; Next up How they scored Packer Insider Post-game transcript Packers Blog Our team of Packers beat reporters brings fans the latest news, inside dope and links from around the Web. Packers Etc. Packers Forum Voice your opinions and interact with other fans in our new Packers message boards on SportsBubbler.com. Advertisement "He was very calm," Smith said after the Falcons' 27-24 victory over the Green Bay Packers. "In warmups, he said, 'Hey, this is pretty cool.' We had run through the script. He knew how we were going to start this game." As it turned out, Ryan had every reason for exuding confidence and poise. The Falcons were going long on the first play and, as it turned out, the Packers never laid a glove on him all day. Ryan had all day to toss a 37-yard bomb to Roddy White with the game less than 25 seconds old. In all, the third overall selection in the 2008 draft dropped back 28 times and not only wasn't sacked but seldom was hurried. "We need to put some pressure on the quarterback and we need to especially limit the explosive gains we've given up," Packers linebacker A.J. Hawk said. "We didn't do that today." The key matchup for Atlanta was right tackle Tyson Clabo against defensive end Aaron Kampman. It appeared to go Clabo's way, because Kampman's only knockdown came on a bootleg. Green Bay's only other knockdown was by defensive end Michael Montgomery at the end of a scramble in which Ryan threw the ball away. On passing downs, Montgomery moved inside alongside Johnny Jolly and Kabeer Gbaja-Biamila played right end. Once again, "KGB" didn't get much done. "I was watching him," said John Abraham, the Falcons' speed-rushing end who entered the league the same year as Gbaja-Biamila, 2000. "Pure pass rusher. I saw him get off the ball good a couple times. He looked kind of off but we did a good job trying to contain him. We did a lot of chipping on both ends." The Falcons were able to concentrate on the ends because without Cullen Jenkins to rely on, the Packers' inside pass rush was non-existent. Jenkins suffered a season-ending chest injury the previous Sunday. One of the Falcons' personnel people said Jenkins had been even more valuable to Green Bay in the first month than end Julius Peppers had been to Carolina. "I watched a lot of film on (Jenkins) and he does a great job," said tackle Todd Weiner, who has started 108 of 141 games in an 11-year career. "There's no doubt they're missing him, and they're going to miss him. Good against the run and, for as big as he is, has surprisingly good pass-rush moves." Gbaja-Biamila, 31, is off to the poorest start of his career. Playing 92 snaps in the first four games, he has been credited with one-half sack. It was a garbage sack, too, because Detroit's Jon Kitna ran right to him. "I watched him," said nose tackle Grady Jackson, Gbaja-Biamila's former teammate. "They didn't have that surge off the ball. Like they were sitting back catching half the time." At times, Gbaja-Biamila demonstrated his rare ability to anticipate the snap count and beat either rookie tackle Sam Baker or veteran tackle Todd Weiner, who was in for 10 snaps in the second quarter. Yet, "KGB" was unable either to turn the corner or redirect his charge to harass Ryan. "A couple times, he was as quick as you could be off the ball," Weiner said. "I'll tell you what. His getting off the ball hasn't slowed up at all. I hadn't really noticed that he lost a step or anything." Gbaja-Biamila hasn't looked like the same player since undergoing arthroscopic knee surgery May 28 and missing almost all of training camp. "I'm coming off a knee surgery myself so I know how that goes," Weiner said. The Packers also played without end Jason Hunter (hamstring), who had been starting at tackle opposite Jenkins in the nickel defense. Rookie Jeremy Thompson made his debut at both end and tackle. After five games, the Packers have nine sacks, including four by Kampman (Jenkins had 2½). The opponents' extremely low passer rating of 63.5 is more the result of the Packers' nine interceptions than consistent pressure. Defensive coordinator Bob Sanders tried blitzing Hawk in the second quarter but backed off when Ryan passed to White for 26 yards and tight end Justin Peelle for 14. "Our house is messy right now," coach Mike McCarthy said. "And nobody is happy about it." From the Oct. 6, 2008 editions of the Milwaukee Journal Sentinel Have an opinion on this story? . Dont miss one more day of local news and money-saving offers! | | | | | | | | | | , Journal Sentinel Inc. All rights reserved. | Produced by | Journal Sentinel Inc. is a subsidiary of . 