    Primary Navigation Secondary Navigation Search: Bonds says he's enjoying life away from baseball Tue Oct 7, 8:20 PM ET SAN FRANCISCO - Barry Bonds made a rare public appearance Tuesday and said he is enjoying life away from baseball. "I'm happy now that I have more time," Bonds told the crowd at the kickoff event of the Macy's Christmas tree lighting. "I've actually enjoyed myself immensely." Bonds, honorary chair of this year's lighting, did not talk to reporters and left quickly after giving a brief speech during the 30-minute ceremony. Lights adorning the large tree in Union Square are sold to benefit the UCSF Children's Hospital palliative care program , and nearly $700,000 has been raised during the past five years. Bonds was questioned by a young patient about potentially returning to baseball. "I had fun," Bonds said. "But I like my freedom." Bonds has donated time and money to the program, hosting golf tournaments and visiting patients and their families. He passed out autographed baseball cards of himself and politely chatted with several patients, many confined to wheelchairs. "We all go through adversities and tragedies," Bonds told the crowd, which greeted him with a standing ovation. "It takes every one of us to stick together to make all of our children's times as precious as we can." The tree lighting ceremony is scheduled for Nov. 28. Bonds pleaded not guilty to 14 counts of making false declarations to a federal grand jury and one count of obstruction of justice , and his trial is scheduled to start March 2. Bonds is accused of lying when he said he never knowingly used performance-enhancing drugs during 2003 grand jury testimony . The 44-year-old Bonds hit 762 homers, seven more than the previous record set by Hank Aaron . New Giants managing partner Bill Neukom said Tuesday the team hasn't decided whether to erect a statue in the slugger's honor as it has done for Hall of Famers Willie Mays , Willie McCovey , Juan Marichal and most recently Orlando Cepeda . "I think that we all need to be respectful of what Barry Bonds has done for baseball and for this team over the course of his career," said Neukom, who took over for Peter Magowan last week. "We all need to permit the legal process to play out with regard to the pending case involving Barry Bonds. And where we go in the future with Barry Bonds will depend, to some extent, on the future. "I think there will be other opportunities for Barry Bonds and the Giants to find common ground." RECOMMEND THIS STORY Recommend It: Average ( Not Rated ) AP AP AP AP AP AP AP Reuters AP AP AP - Tue Oct 7, 2:41 AM ET CNN - Tue Oct 7, 3:15 PM ET Yahoo! Sports - Mon Oct 6, 6:00 PM ET AP - Tue Oct 7, 2:19 PM ET Baseball player Barry Bonds smiles before speaking at the 19th Annual Macy's Christimas Tree Lighting... Sports Video News Search Related Searches: Yahoo! News Topic Pages Get in-depth coverage on topics such as the and . Elsewhere on the Web ABC News: ABC News: ABC News: Yahoo! Autos Take a tour of the new 3 series Coupe on Yahoo! Autos. Yahoo! Real Estate Now is a great time to buy! Search listings at Yahoo! Real Estate. NEWS ALERTS Get an alert when there are new stories about: Peter Magowan palliative care program Willie Mays Juan Marichal autographed baseball cards - - Search: Primary Navigation Copyright © 2008 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. The information contained in the AP News report may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed without the prior written authority of The Associated Press. 