Barrett Nicholas Green (born October 29, 1977) is a former professional American football linebacker in the National Football League. He played college football for West Virginia and was drafted in the second round (50th overall) by the Detroit Lions in the 2000 NFL Draft.

Green was born in West Palm Beach, Florida and attended . At Suncoast, he was a wrestler and played baseball along with football. Following his senior season he played in the South Florida All-Star Game.

As a true freshman in 1995, Green redshirted but was still named Rookie of the Year due to his performance on the scout team. In 1996, Green was the back up  and played in every game. For the season he recorded 12 tackles and a pass deflection. Green was elevated to the starting strong safety as a redshirt sophomore in 1997 and played in every game. He finished third on West Virginia with 71 tackles and also had three sacks. Green added a fumble recovery, six pass deflections and four  to his season totals. Against Notre Dame he had nine tackles which was his season high and he also had eight tackles against Maryland. Green recorded the longest non-touchdown interception return in  history with an 83&nbsp;yard return against Rutgers. In 1998, Green moved forward to the starting  and added 84 more tackles than the previous season with a team&ndash;leading 155 tackles and set a school record with 107 solo tackles. His 155 tackles was the seventh best in West Virginia school history. His season high in tackles was 19 against Navy and Miami (Fla.). He added 15 tackles against Syracuse and 14 in the Boston College game. In the 1999 Insight.com Bowl against Missouri, he played with a cracked rib and yet he still recorded a team&nbsp;high 14 tackles. Following the season he was named First&nbsp;team All&nbsp;Big East. Green was named First&nbsp;team All&nbsp;Big East for a second straight year in 1999 a season in which he led the team once again with 126 tackles. Three sacks and seven tackles for a loss added to his season totals. He recorded 18 tackles against Navy, 17 against Virginia Tech and 15 against Syracuse.

Green father was former Bowling Green
