The Cave Rock Tunnel is a dual bore highway tunnel on U.S. Route 50 (US&nbsp;50) along the eastern shore of Lake Tahoe approximately seven miles (11.4&nbsp;km) north of Stateline, in Douglas County, Nevada, . To the Washoe Indian Tribe, Cave Rock is considered a sacred place and the tribe has placed restrictions on recreational activities in the vicinity of the tunnel.

The tunnels carry  through Cave Rock, a mountain along the eastern shore of Lake Tahoe.  There are numerous small caves adjacent to the south portal of both tunnels which give the rock its name. The tunnel is located between the towns of Zephyr Cove and Glenbrook along the US&nbsp;50 corridor. This portion of US&nbsp;50 is a National Scenic Byway, part of the . The westbound bore is  long and features exposed rock; the eastbound bore features a concrete liner and is  long. The tunnels are an elevation of at approximately , about  above the level of the lake.

The tunnel dates back to the Lincoln Highway. Originally the Lincoln Highway was routed along a single lane  and rock wall built in 1863. Recognizing the inadequacy of the single lane road, efforts began to improve capacity on the primary road to Lake Tahoe.  The first bore was constructed in 1931, as part of a reconstruction of a  section of the Lincoln Highway. Concerned about damaging Cave Rock, the project managers employed key people from the recently completed  in what is now Zion National Park in Utah. The first traffic began flowing through the bore in mid-September of that year. Construction on the second bore began in 1957, when US&nbsp;50 was widened to four lanes, at a cost of just over $450,000 (equivalent to  $ million today). Coincidentally, both bores were constructed by Utah based construction companies.

The Cave Rock area is considered sacred by the Washoe tribe. The Washoe tribal leaders were not consulted about the construction of either bore, and were upset about the perceived desecration of their tribal lands. Within the last decade, the Washoe Tribe has had a larger influence on Cave Rock and its historic preservation. In 2007, the Federal Government ruled on a precedent-setting case that has restricted activities around the tunnel, such as rock climbing
