Christopher Andrus is a , songwriter and record producer from Grand Rapids, Michigan.

Andrus was the lead guitarist and backing vocalist in Slant, a pop rock band from Allendale, Michigan.  Slant recorded one album, 2001's "The Right Amount of Rock," with producer Michael Crittenden.  The band played nearly 300 shows throughout the midwest from 2000–2003, and changed its name to Middlefield in 2004. Middlefield released one album, "Backyard Allstars," shortly before disbanding in 2005.  Despite showcasing for Sony Music in NYC in late 2004, the band was unable to secure a recording contract.

After Slant, Andrus was the frontman of Michigan based indie-rock band Bless You Boys.  Andrus toured the US five times with the band, and released two acclaimed albums, 2007's "Armed to the Teeth" and 2008's "The Still Life."  "Armed to the Teeth" was named "2007 Album of the Year" by The Grand Rapids Press, and "The Still Life" featured the single "Carry Me Home," which reached the number one spot on regional Clearchannel radio station 96.1 MAX-FM.

He released his solo debut "The Glass Man" in August 2010.  Mlive.com described it as "subdued, poignant and dynamic. Andrus' indie-rock project ranks as one of the best local albums of the year."

Andrus' songwriting is heavily influenced by Brian Wilson of The Beach Boys, and he often references Pet Sounds as his favorite recording.  His vocal stylings are often compared to those of Jeff Buckley and Elliott Smith.

Andrus has been called "one of the most promising songwriters on the Michigan music scene today" by John Sinkevics of The Grand Rapids Press.  Juliet Bennett Rylah of Revue Magazine described Andrus' songs as "incredibly narrative stories told as much by his emotive voice as the words themselves. ... Andrus has given his focus over to songwriting, and each song has its share of transitions, dynamics and nuances, meriting multiple listens."

As a producer for The Mackinaw Harvest Music Group, Andrus has recorded projects for more than 50 bands, including notable releases by AB! and Coconut Brown, Chasing the Sky, Troll for Trout, Common Shiner, Torontosaurus Rex, Silversmith, The Red Handed, Almost Famous, Mid Life Crisis, Four Lincolns, and more.

Andrus owns his own publishing company, "How To Speak Hip Music," and is represented by SESAC
