Gregg Brandon (born February 29, 1956) is the current offensive coordinator of the University of Wyoming Cowboys.  Brandon recently coached tight ends in the  for the Las Vegas Locomotives.  Brandon previously served as Offensive Coordinator for the Virginia Cavaliers for the duration of the 2009 season and head coach for the Bowling Green Falcons, but was fired following the conclusion of the 2008 season, after six years at the helm, which included three bowl appearances and shares of two division titles. Brandon had previously been an Assistant Coach and Offensive Coordinator for former Bowling Green head coach Urban Meyer, before Meyer left for the University of Utah in 2003. Brandon is married to the former Robyn Mitchell and has two sons, Nicholas and Timothy.  Brandon is also uncle to Incarnate Word standout, Paul Townsen.

Brandon played football at Air Academy High School in , Colorado. He went on to compete at the collegiate level as both a defensive back and wide receiver at Colorado Mesa University (1974) and University of Northern Colorado (1975–77). He graduated from Northern Colorado in 1978 with a bachelor's degree in education.

Brandon began his coaching career as head football coach at Ellicott (Colo.) High School. He spent three seasons there (1978–80) before joining the college ranks at  (under former Washington State and current UTEP coach Mike Price), where he would coach the next six seasons (1981–86). He coached the tight ends and special teams in his first four seasons, the linebackers in his fifth year and the receivers and tight ends during his final year in Ogden.

In 1987 was then named receivers coach at Wyoming, where he would work the next four years (1987–90). During his tenure with head coach Paul Roach, the Cowboys posted a 35-15 record, including a 16-0 run in Western Athletic Conference play in 1987 and 1988, and played in three bowls ('87 and '88 Holiday and '90 Copper).   In 1991, he returned to Utah where he coached the linebackers for one season (1991) at Utah State.

The following year, Brandon joined the Northwestern staff as receivers coach. He was also Northwestern's recruiting coordinator for his last two seasons there (1997–98). In his seven seasons at Northwestern, Brandon assembled an extremely talented group of receivers, including D'Wayne Bates, the second all-time leading receiver in Big Ten history. Bates was a semifinalist for the  and an All-America candidate.  Brandon would return to the West, spending two seasons at Colorado under Gary Barnett, where he coached the receivers and kickoff return units both years and was the team's passing-game coordinator in 2000 and recruiting coordinator in 1999.

He joined the Falcons as an assistant head coach and offensive coordinator following the 2000 season under head coach Urban Meyer.  Following Meyer's departure to Utah in 2002, Gregg Brandon was named the 16th head football coach in Bowling Green's history.

In his first season as Bowling Green's head coach, Brandon lead the Falcons to an 11-3 record, a national ranking and an appearance in the 2003 MAC Championship Game, eventually losing to Miami (OH) at Doyt Perry Stadium.  The Falcons would still be invited to a bowl game, defeating Brandon's former Northwestern squad, 28-24 at the  at Ford Field in .

The following season, Brandon went 9-3 including taking the Falcons to a second consecutive bowl game, defeating Memphis 52-35 at the 2004 GMAC Bowl in Mobile, Alabama.  The Falcons would finish 6-5 in 2005 after losing a hard fought game against arch rival, Toledo in multiple overtimes, a game if the Falcons had won would've gone to their second MAC Championship and could have gone to a bowl game for the third straight year under Brandon.

Brandon would suffer his first and only losing season in , finishing 4-8 including losses to rivals Kent State, Miami (OH), and Toledo, as well as becoming the first team to lose to Temple in 20-games.  Brandon's Falcons would put the prior season behind them as they would post an 8-5 record during their 2007 campaign earning a share of the MAC East Division title, but missing out on the opportunity to play in the MAC Championship game due to a tiebreaker.  Brandon would lead the team to its third bowl under his tenure, losing to  63-7 in the GMAC Bowl.

Coming into the 2008 season, the Falcons were picked to be the beast of the MAC East and were projected to reach the MAC Championship Game as well as their second straight bowl game.  However, the Falcons had a very disappointing campaign, going 6-6 including a 1-4 record at home.  Following the Falcons double-overtime loss in their home finale against Buffalo, Brandon showed irritation with the fans for their poor attendance at the game as it had championship implications.  The day after winning their first road contest at arch rival Toledo since 1994, Brandon was fired by athletic director Greg Christopher after six years as Bowling Green's head coach and posting a 44-30 record.

On December 18, 2008, Brandon accepted the position of offensive coordinator at the University of Virginia, replacing Mike Groh (son of then current Virginia head coach, Al Groh
