Jackie Tyrrell (born 19 June 1982) is an Irish hurler who plays as a left corner-back for the Kilkenny senior team.  He joined the team during the  and became a regular member of the starting fifteen over subsequent seasons.

Tyrrell is regarded as one of the lynchpins of the Kilkenny defence. He has won six All-Ireland winners' medals, seven Leinster winners' medals and four National League winners' medal. The All-Ireland-winning captain of 2006, he has ended up as an All-Ireland runner-up on one occasion.

At club level Tyrrell is an All-Ireland medalist with James Stephens. In addition to this he has also won two Leinster medals, three county hurling championship medals and two county football championship medals.

Jackie Tyrrell was born in Kilkenny in 1982.  He received his primary education locally before later attending , a famed hurling nursery in the city.  It was here that Tyrrell's hurling skills were developed and nurtured by the many hurling enthusiasts there.  He won back-to-back Leinster colleges' titles in 1999 and 2000.  This latter victory was later converted into an All-Ireland colleges title after a defeat of Gort Community College.  Tyrrell later studied at the Cork Institute of Technology and at the Limerick Institute of Technology.  It was at the latter institution that he won a Fitzgibbon Cup medal on a team trained by Clare's Davy Fitzgerald.   Tyrrell won a second Fitzgibbon Cup title two years after his first in 2007.

===Club===

Tyrrell plays his club hurling and football with the famous James Stephens club. He has had much success at under-age levels, including championship medals at under-14, under-16, under-21 and junior.

In 2003 Tyrrell won a county football championship medal following a 2-7 to 0-6 defeat of O'Loughlin Gaels.

Tyrrell added a county hurling championship medal to his collection in 2004 following a 2-16 to 3-12 defeat of Young Ireland's. He later collected a Leinster title, although the one-point defeat of UCD was in controversial circumstances. The James Stephens club subsequently qualified for the All-Ireland final with Athenry providing the opposition.  A victory for "the village" gave Tyrrell a coveted All-Ireland club medal.

James Stephens retained the county championship in 2005, with Tyrrell winning a second hurling medal following a 1-18 to 2-12 defeat pf . He later picked up a second Leinster club medal following a second consecutive triumph over UCD.  James Stephens were subsequently trounced by eventual winners Portumna in the All-Ireland semi-final.

After a six-year gap Tyrrell won a third hurling championship in 2011 after a thrilling draw and replay with Ballyhale Shamrocks.

Tyrrell first came to prominence on the inter-county scene as a member of the Kilkenny under-21 team. Success was slow in coming in this grade as Wexford dominated in the early years of the new century. In 2003 Kilkenny defeated Dublin by 0-12 to 1-4 giving Tyrrell a Leinster medal in that grade. He later lined out in the under-21 championship decider with Galway providing the opposition. Kilkenny won that game by 2-13 to 0-12 with Tyrrell collecting a coveted All-Ireland medal and collecting the cup as captain.

In 2003 Tyrrell joined the Kilkenny senior team for the first time. He was a non-playing substitute that year as 'the Cats' claimed the All-Ireland, Leister and National League titles.

Tyrrell made his competitive debut for Kilkenny in a National League game against Waterford in 2004. He was a regular during that league campaign, however, he played no part in the subsequent championship.

Kilkenny were back in form in 2005, with Tyrrell winning his first National League medal following a huge 3-20 to 0-15 victory over Clare.  Kilkenny later defeated Wexford by 0-22 to 1-16 in the provincial decider, giving Delaney a first Leinster winners' medal.  While a third successive All-Ireland showdown with Cork seemed likely, Galway defeated Kilkenny in the All-Ireland semi-final in one of the games of the decade.

In 2006 Tyrrell was appointed captain for the year. He added a second consecutive National League medal to his collection following a 3-11 to 0-14 victory over Limerick.  He later won his second Leinster medal following another facile victory over Wexford. The subsequent All-Ireland decider pitted Kilkenny against Cork. The Leesiders were aiming for a third All-Ireland victory in-a-row; however, revenge was foremost in the minds of Kilkenny as it was Cork who denied their three-in-a-row bid in 2004. On the day Kilkenny were far too strong for Cork as 'the Cats' secured a 1-16 to 1-13 victory. It was Walsh's first All-Ireland winners' medal, while he also had the honour of lifting the  as captain.

Tyrrell collected a third Leinster medal in-a-row in 2007 following another facile victory in the provincial decider. Kilkenny later qualified for the All-Ireland final where, surprisingly, Limerick provided the opposition. Kilkenny got off to a flying start with Eddie Brennan and Henry Shefflin scoring two goals within the first ten minutes and went on to win the game by 2-19 to 1-15.  It was Tyrrell's second consecutive All-Ireland medal.  He was later presented with a coveted  award.

2008 saw Kilkenny launch an all-out attack in an attempt to capture a third All-Ireland title in-a-row.  Tyrrell collected a fourth Leinster winners' medal after a 5–21 to 0–17 defeat of Wexford in the provincial final, before later lining out in the All-Ireland decider. Waterford provided the opposition, however, Kilkenny recorded an enormous 3–30 to 1–13 victory. It was a third All-Ireland winners' medal for Tyrrell. A second All-Star award quickly followed.

Tyrrell won his third National League winners' medal in 2009 following a thrilling 4-17 to 2-26 defeat of Tipperary. A fifth Leinster medal quickly followed before Kilkenny set out to make history by becoming the second team in hurling history to win four successive All-Ireland finals. Tipperary were the opponents and, for much of the match, it looked as if they would pull off a shock and deny 'the Cats' the title. Two quick goals in the space of a minute, one from a penalty by Henry Shefflin, sealed a 2–22 to 0–23 victory. It was Tyrrell's fourth consecutive All-Ireland medal. He later won a third All-Star award.

Tyrrell added a sixth Leinster winners' medal to his collection in 2010 following a 1-19 to 1-12 defeat of new provincial rivals Galway. Kilkenny faced a number of injury worries going into an historic All-Ireland final, and ultimately failed in their 'drive for five' as Tipperary won by 4-17 to 1-18. In spite of the defeat Delaney later won a fourth successive All-Star award.

In 2011 'the Cats' continued their provincial dominance with Tyrrell winning a seventh consecutive Leinster winners' medal following a defeat of Dublin.  Kilkenny later qualified for a sixth consecutive All-Ireland final. For the third year in succession Tyrrell's side faced Tipperary, however, on this occasion Kilkenny were slight underdogs going up against the new champions. Kilkenny started quickly and never surrendered the lead in the 2-17 to 1-16 victory.  It was Delaney's fifth All-Ireland winners' medal.

2012 began well for Kilkenny. A trouncing of old rivals Cork gave Tyrrell a fourth National League winners' medal. After losing the Leinster final to GAlway, both sides subsequently met in the All-Ireland decider and Galway nearly pulled off a victory courtesy of goals from Joe Canning and Niall Burke
