The discography of Australian R&B recording artist Jessica Mauboy consists of two studio albums, one live album, fourteen singles, sixteen music videos and twenty-three . Mauboy was the runner-up on the fourth season of Australian Idol in 2006, and subsequently signed a contract with Sony Music Australia. She released her debut live album The Journey in February&nbsp;2007, which features songs she performed as part of the top&nbsp;twelve on Australian Idol. The album debuted at number&nbsp;four on the ARIA Albums Chart and was certified gold by the Australian Recording Industry Association (ARIA), denoting shipments of 35,000 copies. Mauboy briefly became a member of the Australian pop girl group Young Divas later that year, before resuming her solo career early in 2008.

Mauboy released her debut studio album Been Waiting in November&nbsp;2008, which peaked at number&nbsp;eleven on the ARIA Albums Chart and spent fifty-nine weeks in the top fifty. The album was certified double platinum, denoting shipments of 140,000 copies, and became the second highest-selling Australian album of 2009. The album was preceded by the lead single "Running Back", which features American rapper Flo Rida. The song peaked at number&nbsp;three on the ARIA Singles Chart and was certified double platinum. The second single "Burn" became Mauboy's first number-one song on the chart and was certified platinum. Been Waiting also yielded three other successful singles which were certified gold, the  "Been Waiting", "Because" and "Up/Down".

Mauboy's second studio album Get 'Em Girls was released in November&nbsp;2010, which debuted at number&nbsp;six and was certified gold. As a result, the album was less commercially successful compared to its predecessor. The album's title track "Get 'Em Girls" which features American rapper Snoop Dogg, was released as the lead single and peaked at number&nbsp;nineteen. Subsequent singles "Saturday Night" and "Inescapable" both peaked within the top&nbsp;ten and received double platinum certifications. "Galaxy", the final single from Get 'Em Girls, features Australian recording artist Stan Walker. It became Mauboy's first song to chart in New Zealand, where it reached the top&nbsp;forty and was certified gold by the Recording Industry Association of New Zealand (RIANZ). To promote the film The Sapphires (2012), in which Mauboy portrays the character of Julie McCrae, she released "Gotcha" as the lead single from the soundtrack of the same name
