Matthew Robert "Matt" Kohler (born January 12, 1979) is an American actor who has starred in several film and television productions including , Ocean's Thirteen, Nip/Tuck and Betty White's Off Their Rockers.  Born and raised in Port Washington, Wisconsin, approximately 25 miles north of Milwaukee aside Lake Michigan.  He has a twin brother, James Michael Kohler, who is a fitness model and the 2007 Mr. Natural California.

Prior to his acting career he earned a Bachelor’s Degree in Kinesiology from the  and a  (MBA) from California State University, Channel Islands.  He followed his entrepreneurial spirit by creating and opening a tanning salon in 2003 named Baja Tan located in Fox Point, Wisconsin.  During this time he modeled as a fashion, commercial and fitness model.  Most notably working with photographer Mario Testino for VMAN magazine.  Matt began his acting career with the desire to inspire people through his work, so he studied acting rigorously.

He recently launched his own production company, Silver Hero Entertainment, and is producing and developing several projects. His first being a live-action Trailer for Captain Planet and the Planeteers in which he played Captain Planet and .  The Trailer has gone viral, being featured and reviewed on over 100 websites, Entertainment Weekly stated "“Given the choice between a studio remake and this quasi-gritty indie take, I’d go with the latter.”

Matt will produce and star in the feature film titled Stripped.  Matt will play the lead Mike "Sep" Sepowitz, the hero and calm in the storm.  Stripped is a highly stylized neo-noir crime thriller in the narrative vein of The Town (2010 film) meets Reservoir Dogs. Matt will produce and star in a thriller film titled Hackathon, a whodunit horror/thriller.  It misleads the audience at first – the film starts off as an upbeat, fast-paced ensemble  about a group of intelligent Silicon Valley programmer types trying to come up with the next “big idea” – then quickly takes a violent turn towards the horror genre when things go horribly wrong and people start dying/disappearing… hence the double meaning of the title. Matt will play MK, a trust fund , best described as a Winklevoss twins
