The New York Yankees of the  was the second professional American football team competing under that name. It is unrelated to the Yankees of the  (and the National Football League), the Yankees of the , the Yankees of the  (then also called the American Football League) and the (later) Yankees of the All-America Football Conference. The Yankees played their home games in Yankee Stadium and  in . Jack McBride was the team’s head coach throughout its existence; Yankees' president James Bush served as president of the second American Football League in 1936.

Formed by signing National Football League players, primarily s, the 1936 Yankees (including back  and tackle Jess Quatse) battled the Boston Shamrocks and the Cleveland Rams for the league title (which Boston won). New York Giants-turned-Yankees also included end  and back Stu Clancy. The 1937 edition of the Yankees was never truly in the running as league newcomers Los Angeles Bulldogs were the only AFL team with a winning record as Los Angeles dominated the league with an unbeaten, untied 8-0-0 record (the Yankees finished in third place for the second straight year, this time with 2-3-1).

While there was no "official" all-AFL team declared for the 1936 season, guard  was the sole Yankee to be named to the All-League team in 1937. Other Yankees stars include Dean Nesmith, , Al Rose, and .

The complete domination of the AFL by the Bulldogs decimated attendance in Yankee Stadium as LA played the second half of its season on the  (while the Yankees averaged roughly 14,000 in attendance in 1936, the number was cut to about 5000 in 1937). With all the AFL clubs (except Los Angeles) deeply in the red, the second American Football League – and the Yankees – closed up shop at the end of the 1937 season.

Some sources indicate the Yankees of the  (1940) a continuation of the 1936-1937 Yankees, citing a common head coach (Jack McBride) and the continuing existences of two other AFL II teams, the  (which also competed in the third AFL) and the Los Angeles Bulldogs (which became a founding member of the Pacific Coast Professional Football League in 1940 – after competing with Cincinnati in the American Professional Football League
