Randy J. "Biscuit" Turner (November 25, 1949 – August 18, 2005) was an American punk singer and artist. He was born in Gladewater, Texas. He was the lead singer for the seminal hardcore punk band , formed in Austin in the 1970s.

Big Boys, along with The Dicks, Really Red, and MDC, are credited with the development of hardcore punk in Texas, while it was simultaneously emerging in other cities as well. They were one of the earliest skate punk groups, were featured  in  skateboarding magazine and videos, and had their own Big Boys skateboard. The group also is known for being the first punk band to introduce funk rhythms into hardcore, influencing later bands such as Red Hot Chili Peppers. Turner was noted for outrageous stage antics, such as wearing a tutu while performing. In 2004, in a song called "Ode", from the CD Complete Discography,  the queercore band Limp Wrist pay homage to Randy Turner, along with  of The Dicks and  of  and , for being pioneering gay punks in the hardcore scene who have paved the way for Limp Wrist. In his music career, he also played with Cargo Cult, Texas Biscuit Bombs and Swine Kings, who contributed the song "All Broke Down" to Outpunk Records  seminal queercore compilation CD .

Turner also took many turns in the theatre/performance realm. He was well known as a spoken word poet and was welcomed at many readings in Austins busy slam/poetry scene. He took several turns as the "penalty diva" for TXRD Lonestar Rollergirls around 2003 after the death of his friend Amberdiva who had held that position. He performed in 1992 in an award winning production of "Our Town" at , playing both the professor and the reverend.

Turner was found dead in his home in south Austin on August 18, 2005. The cause of death was reported to be cirrhosis of the liver due to a chronic, untreated hepatitis C infection.  He was preparing for a show of his artwork scheduled to open just a few days after he died. He was featured on the  of the local independent newspaper, The Austin Chronicle
