The yellowback stingaree, Urolophus sufflavus, is a locally abundant but little-known species of stingray in the family Urolophidae. It is almost endemic to New South Wales, with a range from  northward, extending only barely into Queensland (Stradbroke Island). It inhabits soft-substrate habitats and has been reported from depths of 45-300 meters (150-980 ft), though it is most common on the outer continental shelf at depths of 100-160 meters (330-520 ft).

This species attains a maximum length of 42 cm (17 in). It has a flattened  disk about as wide as long, with rounded corners and straight anterior margins. There is a skirt-like nasal curtain in front of the mouth, without lateral lobes. The tail is short and stout, measuring 64-76% the length of the disk and bearing a serrated spine. The tail ends in a small ; there are no dorsal fins or lateral folds. The skin is devoid of s. The coloration is uniformly yellowish above, sometimes with an ill-defined brown stripe running down the back.

The yellowback stingaree is likely  with low fecundity, as in other stingarees. Males mature at a length of 23 cm (9 in). This species shares the southern extent of its range with the  (U. cruciatus). The two species apparently hybridize, highly unusual for , and produce offspring that are intermediate in color pattern. In a 2007 study of 388 fishes, these two species were the only two that could not be distinguished on the basis of their cytochrome c s, attesting to a close evolutionary relationship.

Almost the entire range of the yellowback stingaree is under pressure from Australian Commonwealth and State-managed commercial fisheries. This species is caught as bycatch in s and s; though it is generally discarded, survival post-capture is believed to be low, and in addition stingarees tend to abort gestating young if captured and handled. From 1966-67 to 1996-97, the capture rate of stingarees in trawl surveys on the New South Wales upper slope, including the yellowback stingaree, declined by some 65%. Trawl surveys off Sydney found a similar decline of 45%. These negative trends and this species' restricted distribution has led it to be assessed as Vulnerable by the 
