      On FOX News CHANNEL: Breaking News >> Fed Cuts Key Interest Rate by Half-Point to 1.5 Percent HOT TOPICS Send news tip to FOXNews.com > Rose McGowan May Play 'Deep Throat' Star Linda Lovelace Tuesday, October 07, 2008 By Roger Friedman Share: AP Rose McGowan | | Could Rose McGowan wind up getting deep? The talented, beautiful star of "Planet Terror" from the Robert Rodriguez part of "Grindhouse" and TV’s "Charmed" is considering joining the cast of "Inferno," producer Brian Grazer ’s film about legendary "Deep Throat" star Linda Lovelace . I’m told that already cast are Bill Pullman as Hugh Hefner and Josh Lucas as Linda’s husband, Chuck Traynor , the one who got her into porn. First time writer-director Matthew Wilder will direct from his own script. I’m pretty sure he’s not the same Matthew Wilder who sang, "Nobody’s gonna break my stride…" "Inferno" isn’t the first attempt at telling the story of the famed Deep Throat star. In past years, both Angelina Jolie and Meg Ryan were mentioned as being interested in the role. Related Column Archive Stories The movie won’t just be about Deep Throat. Lovelace’s life was full of ups and downs. Born Linda Boreman , she wrote two bestselling memoirs, "Ordeal," and "Out of Bondage." According to one bio, after Linda made "Deep Throat" in 1974, she became a feminist. She joined up with Andrea Dworkin and Catharine MacKinnon , and testified before Attorney General Ed Meese ’s Commission on Pornography in 1986. Lovelace died in Denver on April 22, 2002, due to severe injuries in a car accident. McGowan, meantime, is deservedly busy. She just filmed a bunch of episodes of "Nip/Tuck" and has three or four film projects ready to go since breaking up with Rodriguez. A planned remake of "Barbarella," however, has thankfully been scotched. Famed Clinton political strategist James Carville was in rare form Monday night. The occasion was a screening at the Paley Center (aka the Museum of Broadcasting) of "The Return of the War Room." Carville shared a panel with fellow Clintonian Dee Dee Myers , Newsweek writer Mark Miller , filmmakers D.A. Pennebaker and Chris Hegedus and moderator David Edelstein . During a Q&A session after the screening of the documentary — it airs Oct. 13 on the Sundance Channel — Carville proved to be every bit as amusing as in the past, and in the film. (His wife, Mary Matalin , noted Republican strategist, actually steals the film.) It was mentioned that in the original "War Room" film, George Stephanopolous receives a call that someone may have found a Clinton love child. "With the Republicans, it’s always a black love child," Carville said, "because Republicans don’t like blacks, and they don’t like sex." It’s a joke, kids! Earlier, Carville mentioned that he has moved to New Orleans only to find another new resident: Gennifer Flowers . "We’ve both washed down the river, I guess," he said. Will he see her? "I guess if she’s performing in one of the clubs, I’d stop in." "The Return of the War Room" comes at a significant moment in the 2008 election, and should be enlightening for members of all political parties. Matalin notes that in the 1992 campaign, reporters and politicos still had close enough relationships that she would often hear from journalists about Carville’s mooning for her on the trail. (They married and now have a 13-year-old daughter.) Also at the screening, an old favorite: actor Robert Walden , who played Rossi on "Lou Grant" and was in "All the President’s Men." Nice to see him. Walden teaches at the New School and just directed an off-Broadway play. Bravo! The bad economy may soon be manifested in the entertainment biz at the annual Sundance Film Festival. Already one major publicist who’s handled hundreds of new films over the years there has decided to stay home. Others may follow suit, depending on the number of films requiring promotion. (Last year’s crop was desultory compared to prior years, but it’s cyclical.) There’s now some concern that Sundance may suffer a downturn in industry attendance. Stay tuned. … Sad to say that actress Irene Dailey has passed away at age 88. She played Aunt Liz Matthews on NBC’s "Another World" for 20 years from 1974 to 1994, and won a Daytime Emmy. Also a Tony-winner, Dailey was an elegant actress with a hearty sense of humor. She was a fan favorite, and will be missed. … Towering talent Roy Orbison died from a heart attack at age 52 in 1994. But luckily, after a life of tragedy, he left behind a dedicated, vigilant family. Wife Barbara and sons Roy Kelton and Alex have never let Orbison’s flame die as one of the founders of rock 'n' roll. They’ve just issued an amazing box set called "Roy Orbison: The Soul of Rock and Roll." The four disc package is just beautiful, with comprehensive liner notes and even some of Roy’s reproduced art work. This is a great holiday gift even for those who upload or download or whatever. The music is lusciously remastered for CD the way it should sound. Just listen to "In Dreams" or "Blue Bayou" now. Gorgeous. ... Writer Jill Brooke takes divorced couple Meg Ryan and Dennis Quaid to task on www.firstwivesworld.com on the subject of parenting. Son Jack , Jill writes, "might deserve an apology from both parents for airing the family's dirty laundry in public. Perhaps the dialogue could start, 'Sometimes you have two good people who aren't good together, and we just proved that, but we still really love you.'" ... Share: Top Video Showbiz News ADVERTISEMENT The volleyball star is recovering at home after an injury forced her to leave Dancing with the Stars The pregnant singer turns 24 wearing Daisy Dukes and a fake tattoo at her costume bash The supermodel's ex denies he's the "pervert I've been painted to be" Check out the three fab looks Ms. Spears dons in her comeback clip set to air Friday A source says the pair are "taking it slow" as they rekindle their relationship with dates in L.A. and N.Y.C. FNC iMag top videos pet planet ADVERTISEMENT AP Wires Marketplace For FOXNews.com comments write to ; For FOX News Channel comments write to This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. © 2008 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. All market data delayed 20 minutes. 