    On MP3.com: welcome, October 7, 2008 10:00 AM PDT CBS live Webcast: Presidential debate, round two Posted by Republican John McCain and Democrat Barack Obama will go at it once again Tuesday night during the second official presidential debate, this one in the form of a town hall meeting. The 90-minute debate, moderated by NBC News' Tom Brokaw, kicks off at 9 p.m. EDT at Belmont University in Nashville, Tenn., and you can follow it live online at the . Immediately following the debate, stay with the site for a Web-only analysis and commentary with Katie Couric, the CBS News political team, and guests. You can also submit your own questions, now or during the event, at the Debate Webcast site. We'll offer the same exclusive Web coverage for the final presidential debate on October 15. You can check out the post-debate Webcast from the first presidential debate here: . Watch the Webcast from the first and only vice presidential debate here: . See also: . Topics: Tags: , , , Bookmark: . Recent posts from News - Politics and Law ( ) 30 comments (Showing first 20 comments) by October 7, 2008 11:41 AM PDT It makes very little sense to me that the moderators of the presidential and vice presidential debates lead the candidates with questions of the moderator's choice. Let the candidate speak for themself. Your terms of debate do not give the candidate time to speak to the issues that they feel are important to our country at this time. Thank you. by October 7, 2008 12:39 PM PDT A great debate would recognize that the American people want to hear what each candidate will do to fix the economy, Iraq et al. We don't want to hear allegations and refutation. We don't want personal attacks. We want to know what the candidates plan to do in office, and how that candidate proposes to achieve his objectives, so we can make sound judgements. McCain/Palin's latest attacks against Obama feel like that same ole' republicans.... believing that once again, their fear tactics will force the American people to vote their way. Their character assassination and accusations are desperate measures from desperate politicians? It's dýjý vu - exactly how Bush won; invoking fear and trepidation into the American people. I would hope McCain would stick to the enormous issues this country is facing, but alas, since he is not winning and can not win on his own value, I predict he will resort to the "ugly" politics. Processing by October 7, 2008 1:36 PM PDT I would like the candidates to be asked why they voted for the bailout plan so quickly. Why the overwhelming distrust of the American people toward this package was overlooked. The events of the past week remind me of the weeks before the war in Iraq started: Majority of the people against the war; tactics of fear and urgency that contaminated the national mood; the invulnerability of the people who are either responsible for the current crisis or should and never saw it coming. Processing by October 7, 2008 3:07 PM PDT The candidates are going to say what they think people want to hear in order to get elected. Why anyone would take these debates seriously is a mystery to me! Processing by October 7, 2008 3:44 PM PDT I'm surprised no one has asked the candidates during the debates -- and that neither Joe Biden nor Barack Obama has thought to bring it up, either during the debates or in any other forum -- about the obvious connection between the out-of-control spending on the war in Iraq and the recent economic crisis, which is being compared to the Great Depression of 1929. The close occurrence in time of these two events cannot possibly be a coincidence. Did anyone else wonder, years ago, how long it would be before the war in Iraq began to dramatically affect the American economy? Well, it finally has, and no one is talking about it! Why? It can't be because it can't be proven since many other allegations have been made during this campaign which could not be proven, either. Granted, it is an awful accusation to level against the Bush White House and the Republicans, but this is not the time to play nice! Processing by October 7, 2008 5:51 PM PDT As an undecided voter, I look forward to this debate. I'd appreciate any help anyone could offer with judging the candidates on these criteria: http://www.unfuse.com/decisions/79-Presidential-Debate-2-Obama-Vs-McCain/finalize Processing by October 7, 2008 6:08 PM PDT The American people have forgotten what made us a great nation.We have the choice to make something of ourselves, or become fat on welfare. The difference between the two is pride. We have been lazy and allowed others to have what they haven't worked for. Parents have decided to stop raising their children because it is too hard. People live outside their income and then cry when the toys they can't afford are taken away from them. Adults need to start acting like adults. Columbine could have been prevented by people raising their children to respect themselves and each other, but instead we blame guns for the tragedy that happened. People need to start having personal accountability, and teach their children the same. Processing by October 7, 2008 6:22 PM PDT Here is a novel idea - perhaps the candidates could actually talk about what they can realistically accomplish while in office not just throw around cliches and alleged promises just to woo voters. Just a thought. Processing by October 7, 2008 6:55 PM PDT How do you plan to stop the coffers, Pharmaceutical, tobacco, Oil etc. interfering with lawmakers? Processing by October 7, 2008 7:02 PM PDT WHAT I WANT TO KNOW IS WHO IS GOING TO POLICE THE BILLIONS BAIL-OUT - THIS IS THE MOST IMPORTANT ITEM FOR ME TODAY - SO FAR I HAVE SEEN NOTHING TO INDICATE THAT GOVERNMENT IS DOING ANYTHING TO DO THIS Processing by October 7, 2008 7:15 PM PDT The biggest question I have as a construction worker is why neither candidate will submit a plan to deport all illegal aliens. The bulk of the non union construction companies employ illegals who can not speak English and work for a much lower wage and greatly reduce the quality of life for the workers who have been the mainstay of our economy for years. That is the biggest way to help the middle class not tax cuts because the loss of wages is already cutting our taxes. Processing by October 7, 2008 7:24 PM PDT the lester family from wheeler illinois askes what about the people who have to live on less than 10,000 dollars a year vietnam era vetran who has become disabled what kind of break will they get Processing by October 7, 2008 7:37 PM PDT These two Senators are honorable men, but how can we know from their responses here what they will do for our nation as Commander in Chief? Prepared comments are not the same as dealing spontaneously to a crisis. The president has some great responsibilies - keeping young men and women out of harms way, making it possible for the common American to understand complicated matters facing our nation like the financial crisis and the bailout. How will these men meet these objectives? From how little a voter can gather from all of this, I would think Barack Obama came across as the stronger, more sure leader - marginally. Processing by October 7, 2008 7:59 PM PDT Who is gonna do what for me??? Nice to see America is riddled with greed from top to bottom. Go get a job! Figure out what you can do for yourself. (What would JFK say?) This country is all about helping out those who don't have what others have. How is that democracy or capitalism? Our country is one of opportunity. Taking chances on being a success is what it's all about. Sometimes people fail. Pick yourself up, dust yourself off, and get back to your dream. The worst thing about these debates is listening to the idiotic press's analysis. Do they NOT hear what is being said? Do they hear themselves? I can't believe Obama is ahead in the polls. Anyone who believes he can change anything, is a fool. What every country needs is a manipulator in charge. We need a piece of America to lead this country, not some holier than thou poster boy. ("I've been through this and that... blah, blah, blah.) Big deal. If any voter actually put some thought into it, we've all been through hard times... some are going through them now. John McCain is who he is. He isn't a maverick or anyone special. He's just like an average dreaming American. He will make mistakes and admit to it. My family is struggling to get by. But I don't ask what either of these guys can do for me. I want to know how they will manage and lead this country. I'll do my job and try to stay afloat. NOW GO OUT THERE AND USE YOUR TURN SIGNALS!! Have some courtesy for your fellow American. This country starts with you. by October 7, 2008 8:23 PM PDT I'd run for President, but America doesn't want the truth. by October 7, 2008 8:26 PM PDT McCain seems more like an independant than a republican, and that became a lot more obvious to me in tonights debate. If he voted the same as President Bush almost all of the time, why is he making so many comments against him now? There are a lot of people that voted for Bush that think like him strongly support him. If McCain wants the Republican vote for president, he shouldn't be stabbing leaders of the Republican Party in the back. Add a comment Comment The posting of advertisements, profanity, or personal attacks is prohibited. Click here to review our . Powered by Comment reply The posting of advertisements, profanity, or personal attacks is prohibited. Click here to review our . Report offensive content: If you believe this comment is offensive or violates the , you can report it below (this will not automatically remove the comment). Once reported, our staff will be notified and the comment will be reviewed. Select type of offense: Offensive: Sexually explicit or offensive language Spam: Advertisements or commercial links Disruptive posting: Flaming or offending other users Illegal activities: Promote cracked software, or other illegal content Comments (optional): E-mail this comment to a friend. E-mail this to: (Separate multiple e-mail addresses with commas. Limited to 10 addresses.) Your e-mail address: Send me a copy of this message Note: Your e-mail address is used only to let the recipient know who sent the e-mail and in case of transmission error. Neither your address nor the recipients's address will be used for any other purpose. Add your own personal message: (Optional) Warning! You will be deleting this comment and all its replies (if applicable). Most Popular About News - Politics and Law Lead contributor has covered politics, technology, and Washington, D.C., for more than a decade, which has turned him into an iconoclast and a skeptic of anyone who says, "We oughta have a against this." Click this link to view as XML. Add this feed to your online news reader News - Politics and Law topics Featured blogs by Ina Fried by Charles Cooper by Robert Vamosi by Daniel Terdiman by Tom Krazit by Dan Farber by Declan McCullagh by Caroline McCarthy by Stephen Shankland Inside CNET News Scroll Left Scroll Right News - Business Tech Struggling IT services company has chosen Edward Coleman, a man it says has a long history of transforming troubled tech companies, to take over as CEO. Gallery Workers' Edge From iPhones to Flash players, upgrading to the latest version can improve performance while keeping you safe. Outside the Lines After this perfect storm, brewed out of years of habit and taken down by mortgages for the masses, consumers and businesses will be far more conservative in their spending habits. Video News - Digital Media YouTube is adding links to Amazon.com and the iTunes Store from the pages of thousands of its videos, making it easier for people to buy an MP3 they hear or a video game that looks good. Video News - Politics and Law Government and information technology industry representatives on Tuesday discussed how to make the public comfortable with the increasingly sophisticated ways the government collects identifiable information. News - Cutting Edge The tech pundit and investor is girding for six months of training at Russia's Star City, as an understudy to International Space Station-bound Charles Simonyi. Gallery Crossfade Download a free MP3 of "Terminal Boredom" courtesy of CNET Download Music. Green Tech A new Army energy strategy includes plans for what could become the world's largest solar thermal farm, as well as geothermal and biomass-to-fuel projects. News Popular topics CNET sites More information Popular on CBS sites: Copyright ©2008 CNET Networks, Inc., a CBS Company. All rights reserved. Visit other CBS Interactive sites: | | | | | | | | | | 