      Wednesday, October 8, 2008 | Current Weather for NWA: Fair 46 F ( ) | | | | | News Sports Business Opinion Style MORE ANNOUNCEMENTS Tools & Information Special Sections ADVERTISING MUSIC REVIEW : Perlman near-perfect on strings BY MICHELLE PARKS Posted on Tuesday, October 7, 2008 | FAYETTEVILLE — Itzhak Perlman is a violin virtuoso with a great sense of humor. He and pianist Rohan De Silva performed to a packed house Sunday night at the Walton Arts Center. The show had an open feel, with the house lights dimmed but not completely black. Perlman, 63, who contracted polio as a child, rode in on a motorized scooter, from which he performed. De Silva, a native of Sri Lanka, sat behind him at a grand piano. After about 90 minutes, they left the all-ages crowd exhilarated and speechless. Perlman, born in Israel, has performed for heads of state and alongside Telly on Sesame Street. He’s won 15 Grammy and four Emmy awards. He’s collaborated with film score composer John Williams and performed the violin solos for Schindler’s List, directed by Steven Spielberg. Perlman and cellist Yo-Yo Ma — who performed at the arts center in February — also played on Williams’ soundtrack for Memoirs of a Geisha. For Sunday’s program, the men performed three pieces from composers over three centuries. First was J. M. Leclair’s “Sonata for violin and piano in D major,” about a 15-minute piece that showed his equal proficiency at slow, brooding tones and fun, lively ones. In Beethoven’s “Sonata for violin and piano No. 7 in C minor, Op. 30 / 2” which lasted about 25 minutes, De Silva often led with the piano parts. They had wonderful, seamless timing in this piece, at times playing dizzyingly fast. Perlman is a commanding performer with a relaxed presence. He occasionally dabbed sweat from his face with the white cloth cushioning his violin. Despite the perspiration, his playing seemed effortless, his body so at ease. The sound flowed flawlessly from his violin. After an intermission, they performed Stravinsky’s “Suite Italienne for violin and piano,” which lasted about 20 minutes. Particularly good in this was the Tarantella movement, a super lively movement during which Perlman skittered his bow across the strings with measures full of staccato notes. It left the crowd breathless. After a standing ovation, the musicians spent another 30 minutes playing eight short selections. Many were connected to Fritz Kreisler, an Austrian-born American violinist and composer. Perlman told the crowd about the works and composers as they went along. In these, Perlman continued to show off fast fingerwork, his left hand flying across the strings as he worked the neck of his violin. He put the perfect touch on “Spanish Dance,” by Enrique Granados, giving it a soaring, romantic feel and a gentle end. As De Silva looked for the right sheet music on one song, Perlman said if he didn’t know better he might think the next selection was Heiden — a joke that elicited laughter across the performance hall. The best of these additional tunes — and among the best of the night — was “Dance of the Goblins,” by Antonio Bazzini. The men played this so well together, from the strong piano start to the rapid violin sequences. Perlman plucked his instrument a few times in this playful tune. He took his violin into intriguing high pitches. Several satisfying sequences went from slow to fast tempos, achieving a beautiful overall effect. FEEDBACK: Something to say about this topic? Copyright © 2001-2008 Arkansas Democrat-Gazette, Inc. All rights reserved. 