      Get in touch Call: (800) 877-3400 Sections Topics Multimedia Columnists Sections Wire Sections Multimedia Columnists Sections Topics Multimedia Columnists Sections Advertising section Topics Multimedia Columnists Sections Wire Sections Multimedia Columnists The Beehive SportsBuzz Honeycomb Sections Topics Multimedia Columnists Sections Place an Obituary Sections Place an Ad Cars Homes Rentals Seniors Jobs Shopping , or Web Search powered by YAHOO! SEARCH Share this story: | | Title IX leads to rearrangements at Fresno State By George Hostetter / The Fresno Bee 10/06/08 23:08:06 </ br></ br> As part of its effort to comply with federal gender-equity laws, Fresno State has begun a major reshuffling of offices for coaches and athletic department officials. Since early 2004, the Office for Civil Rights has been investigating Fresno State's compliance with Title IX. This is the law requiring equitable treatment of male and female athletes at schools receiving federal funds. Athletic director Thomas Boeh acknowledges that, because Title IX deals with "the student-athlete experience," it may seem unusual that coaches' offices fall under the law. But, Boeh adds, athletes often gather in the offices. He says Fresno State will provide equitable surroundings -- space, furniture, ambience -- for such meetings. "When we raise more money, we'll improve the offices even more," Boeh says. Jim Bradshaw, a spokesman with the Department of Education, said Friday in an e-mail that the investigation continues and "we're working as quickly as possible to resolve it." Federal officials in the early 1990s conducted a two-year Title IX investigation that found Fresno State out of compliance in 11 of 13 areas. Boeh says Fresno State is making progress: "We are clearly going to be one of the country's leaders in Title IX in the next several years." As with any move, coaches and administrators are juggling their daily duties while unpacking stacks of boxes. University officials say the changes, including remodeling of old offices, should take about three months. Some coaches have been assigned to new offices, while others will stay where they are. There are three parts to the plan: Departments such as media relations, development, external relations and the Bulldog Foundation have moved to 1510 E. Shaw Ave., suite 103, a short walk south of Bulldog Stadium. About 40 employees who had worked in the North Gym or the Duncan Athletic Building are making the move. The university signed a two-year lease, but officials didn't reveal the cost. Offices in the North Gym, after getting fresh coats of paint and new carpeting, will be assigned to coaches whose sports play on the east side of Cedar Avenue. For example, softball coach Margie Wright and her staff are scheduled to move from their offices on the gym's west side to the east side. Remodeled offices in the Duncan Athletic Building will be assigned to coaches whose sports play west of Cedar. For example, women's lacrosse coach Sue Behme has a modest-sized office in the area once occupied by development and the Bulldog Foundation. She has been reassigned to a bigger office about 30 feet away. University officials didn't reveal the remodeling's projected cost. Behme was hired in May. Fresno State added lacrosse and revived the women's swimming and diving team as part of the mandate requiring equitable financial aid. Behme says she'll miss those who moved out: "I'm going through Bulldog Foundation staff withdrawal." But, she adds, the changes are positive: "For me personally, I'm excited to be around other coaches." The reporter can be reached at or(559) 441-6272. Comments Share this story: | | What a rotten way for Fresno State to begin conference play. I'm not sure which was worse - the six turnovers or the poor special teams play. What's your take? the-sound-dude said: I love this, we the fans are upset and rightfully so. And now we're voicing our opinions. I think out of everyone's complaints, there is not one that isn't valid. I'm willing to give Pat Hill another chance and not jump on the fire Hill bandwagon just yet. Only because it's due to him and he did make huge strides from when he took over. However, your chances are running out Coach. I want to root for the team unconditionally, but with all the bonehead dicisions going around, by both players and coaches, it's nearly impossible. I would love to go on and on about the many mistakes I see, but I think we all see them. And I'm not talking about gameplanning. I mean execution, bonehead penalties, lack of teaching on the bench during the game, lack of desire to win, etc. I'll stop there with the mistakes. Like I said I think we all see them. To the Warrior fan who talked about us fans, you simply don't live here so you don't understand. Your team ALWAYS plays hard, even if they're less talented they will not be beat because of lack of effort. It's a very different atmosphere over here. OKAY, I'M DONE FOR TODAY. I hope the 'dogs make all us upset fans look foolish from here on out. [ ] Advertisement , or Web Search powered by YAHOO! SEARCH © Copyright 2008 The Fresno Bee 