    Use our pull-down menus to find more stories OR subscribers use AllAfrica's Nigeria: Zinox Launches Digital Knowledge Democracy in Three Cities This Page This Page on this article The Publisher's Site (Lagos) 6 October 2008 Posted to the web 7 October 2008 Aaron Ukodie Zinox Technologies has launched a new projects through its Computerise Nigeria Project, CNP that will guide Nigerian citizens, corporate and individual, through the maze of technology, and ensure that they choose and buy only what is right for their situation. The project known as Digital Knowledge Democracy and described by officials as an Independence Anniversary gift was launched in Lagos, Abuja and Enugu. The Digital Knowledge Democracy solutions is packaged and designed to meet every IT consumer at his/her point of need and it seeks to recognize and enhance the pace of IT penetration in Nigeria. Launching the first phase of the Project in Abuja, Leo Stan Ekeh, Chairman of Zinox Computers said that the pace of change in technology is very fast and can be confusing to the consumer. He explained that the Digital Knowledge Democracy professionally analyses the needs of the consumer and makes sustainable prescriptions that are affordable with flexible payment terms. According to Ekeh the first phase of the Digital Knowledge Democracy, entitled e-School Project, was launched just before the 48th independence anniversary, to draw attention to the choices embedded in the package designed to help schools to attain world-class standards without the usual financial stress. ICT infrastructure like computer laboratory, digital library, website domain, school portals and the Zinox wireless cloud are offered with tangible incentives that include free training, free website designs, free e-mail for Senior Staff and free internet access up to 1km radius. Ekeh explained that the e-School Project also offers a staff computerization scheme and a students' computer ownership scheme. He said that one of the novel additions to this offer was the Zinox Wireless Cloud which provides internet connectivity up to 1km radius thus injecting hyper-activity into the environment. While launching the e-School Project in Lagos and Enugu, Mrs Vivian Abii, the Chief Executive Officer (CEO)of Computerise Nigeria Project, explained that the Project was another testimony of the commitment of the CNP to IT penetration in Nigeria. Abii noted that no IT company has invested on marketing themes and schemes as much as the CNP, resulting in the provision of, most times, discounted and subsidized systems to consumers. She said that the e-School was a special anniversary gift for educational institutions. She urged schools to take advantage of the e-School bouquet of benefits. She singled out the ZX Portal which opens the way for a range of online student teacher interactions from admissions, to lectures, to school administration, to intra and inter campus connectivity. She revealed that the first point of contact for international and other assessor agencies is the school's website and the CNP would completely take the website design off the schools. Mrs. Abii emphasized that free training is a major benefit of the e-School Project. In Enugu as in Lagos Abii informed State Officials and Stake holders in Education that the huge ICT opportunities embedded in the Digital Knowledge Democracy would not be exclusive to schools alone as State and Local Governments, churches, hospitals, estates, office complexes, sports facilities etc can take advantage of this bold strategy to enhance productivity and bring about real development in Nigeria. Relevant Links The Computerize Nigeria was set up in 2001 by the Board of Zinox Technologies Limited to catalyze the adoption of the computer as a major tool of work and play. The CNP has remained in the forefront of ICT penetration in Nigeria - donating laboratories to many schools, obtaining subsidies and passing same to consumers as discounts, working assiduously to change the face of education in Nigeria through the CNP Partnership with the Federal Government. Currently, the Computerize Nigeria Project is involved in the computer ownership scheme of 26 Federal universities. AllAfrica aggregates and indexes content from over , plus more than , who are responsible for their own reporting and views. Articles and commentaries that identify allAfrica.com as the publisher are . Share this on: © 2008 Daily Independent. All rights reserved. Distributed by AllAfrica Global Media ( ). To contact the copyright holder directly for corrections -- or for permission to republish or make other authorized use of this material, . | | | | | | Questions or Comments? . Read our . Today's Most Active Stories Most Read Most Commented Most Emailed 