  ARCHIVE Sports // Wednesday, October 8, 2008 Ferrari revert to 'lollipop' for Japan Formula One Time is GMT + 8 hours Posted: 8-Oct-2008 14:37 hrs Brazilian driver Felipe Massa of Ferrari leaves the pits with the fuel hose intact during the final of Formula One's Singapore Grand Prix, on September 28. Ferrari have decided to dump their "traffic light" pit stop signal system at the Japan Grand Prix and revert to the traditional "lollipop" after their disaster in Singapore. Ferrari have decided to dump their "traffic light" pit stop signal system at the Japan Grand Prix and revert to the traditional "lollipop" after their disaster in Singapore. . Felipe Massa lost all hope of winning in Singapore when a mechanic controlling their innovative lights system made a mistake and turned the green on before a fuel hose was detached. . The lights system usually works automatically when the hose is removed, but the system was operated manually in Singapore. . The bungle cost Ferrari dearly as they fell behind McLaren in the constructors championship while Massa slipped seven points adrift of Lewis Hamilton in the drivers' world title race. . Team boss Stefano Domenicali said Ferrari needed to simplify things, so the lollipop system was being brought back. . "We still believe that our 'traffic light' system used for releasing the drivers from the pits does bring a performance advantage, something we have seen on a couple of occasions this season," he said on the Ferrari website. . "It is a good system that still has potential. . "However, for the rest of this season, in the light of recent events, we have decided to revert to a conventional 'lollipop' for telling the driver when it is clear for him to go. . "This decision has been taken purely to give the pit crew maximum confidence at the time of the pit stops. . "Pit stops are always a tense moment and with the fight for the championships so finely balanced that will be even more the case over these last few races." ý AFP Best viewed using Internet Explorer 5.5 and above, with 1024x768 screen resolution Copyright ©2005 MediaCorp Press Ltd | All rights reserved | | 