    Army News, opinions, editorials, news from Iraq, photos, reports - Army Times | Quick Links Digg http://www.armytimes.com/news/2008/10/airforce_friendlyfire_soldiers_100708w/ news/2008/10/airforce_friendlyfire_soldiers_100708w Pilot faulted in errant bombing of soldiers By - Staff writer Posted : Wednesday Oct 8, 2008 6:33:26 EDT An investigation into the errant bombing of soldiers in an SUV last April said the pilot broke two close-air support rules requiring the pilot to identify his target. Five 20mm cannon rounds struck the driver’s side of a Chevrolet Suburban, with one round hitting the truck about one foot behind the driver’s door. Miraculously, the soldiers sustained comparatively minor injuries. The mistake happened April 8 during a nighttime close-air support training mission at the Utah Test and Training Range, Hill Air Force Base. The soldiers were on the range to practice calling in close-air support strikes. They were not working with the jet that bombed their SUV. At the stick of the F-16 was Maj. John O. Erickson, then the assistant director of operations for the 34th Fighter Squadron of the 388th Fighter Wing at Hill. Erickson was the flight lead of two F-16s practicing nighttime close-air support and aerial refueling. His wingman was Col. Kevin Schneider, vice commander of the 388th. An investigation ordered by the commander of 12th Air Force, Lt. Gen. Norman Seip, concluded that Erickson, who fired the rounds, likely confused his intended target, an armored personnel vehicle, with the Chevrolet Suburban, which was parked with its headlights on, about three miles from the target. Schneider was not faulted. The 12th Air Force refused to release a copy of the investigation report, which Seip approved May 27. Air Force Times obtained a copy of the 178-page investigation Monday through a Freedom of Information Act request. The two soldiers in the Chevrolet, 1st Lt. Jared R. Cox and Sgt. 1st Class James T. Walker III, both of the 5th Brigade's 8th Squadron, 1st Cavalry Regiment Fire Support Team at Fort Lewis, Wash., were awaiting approval to drive away from an observation post , the report said. Walker sustained a dislocated shoulder as he ran for cover in case of a second attack. A small piece of shrapnel hit Cox’s left hand and he sustained abrasions to the left side of his head and left hand. “Just as I bring [the radio microphone] up to my mouth, the vehicle explodes,” Cox told investigators. Walker recalled, “I immediately realized what we had been hit by the F-16 20mm gun and told Lt. Cox to turn off the vehicle lights so if the wingman was coming in to strafe, we wouldn’t present a target.” Before anyone could fire again, the joint terminal attack controller at the observation point, Tech. Sgt. Matthew E. Lindmark of the 5th Air Support Operations Squadron, Fort Lewis, realized the mistake and told the F-16s to abort their assault. Digg An investigation concluded that an F-16 pilot likely confused his intended target, an armored personnel vehicle, with this Chevrolet Suburban, in which two soldiers were practicing close-air support strike calls. 1 of 1 Find everything you need to know about contributing to the . In a Time of War tells a vivid and sometimes heartbreaking story about courage, honor, and what war really means to the soldiers whose lives it defines. In honor of your military service, you can find regular and name brand products at a special discount. Find the best deals at your local stores. Some 22,000 soldiers have been tapped to go to Iraq. Read who’s going and when they’ll be leaving — and if some of them could be heading to Afghanistan. | Army Times Publishing Co. Looking for more of the best military, federal and defense industry news and information? Select one our websites from the menu below. 1-800-368-5718 All content © 2008, Army Times Publishing Company | | 