    Primary Navigation Secondary Navigation Search: US opens trade office in Libya Mon Oct 6, 11:42 AM ET TRIPOLI (AFP) - The United States has opened a trade office in Libya to boost economic ties with the oil-rich state, the official JANA news agency reported on Monday. It said the US assistant secretary for trade, Israel Hernandez , was at the official opening on Sunday with Libyan government representatives as well as businessmen from both countries. The opening, exactly one month after a landmark visit to Libya by US Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice , aims to ramp up commerce between the two countries, Hernandez said, according to JANA. In August, the Libyan and US governments reached an agreement on a plan to compensate US victims of Libyan attacks and Libyan victims of US reprisals, clearing the way for the first visit by a secretary of state in 55 years. US-Libya ties were suspended in 1981 when Washington put Tripoli on its list of state sponsors of terrorism. Libya was forced even further into isolation after the bombing of a US airliner over Lockerbie, Scotland in 1988. The turning point came when Libyan leader Moamer Kadhafi in December 2003 announced that he giving up weapons of mass destruction programmes following secret talks with the United States and Britain . The US Congress, however, has been blocking the appointment of an ambassador to Tripoli until all American victims of Libyan attacks have been compensated. RECOMMEND THIS STORY Recommend It: Average ( Not Rated ) AP AP AP AP AP AP AP AP AP The Christian Science Monitor Australia 7 News - 30 minutes ago AFP - 44 minutes ago Reuters - 1 hour, 12 minutes ago BBC - 1 hour, 34 minutes ago News Video US assistant secretary for trade, Israel Hernandez, seen here in 2007, was at the official... News Search Related Searches: Elsewhere on the Web Time.com: McClatchy Newspapers: ABC News: Yahoo! Autos See the latest Land Rover vehicles on Yahoo! Autos. Add headlines to your personalized My Yahoo! page World - Africa NEWS ALERTS Get an alert when there are new stories about: Libya Moamer Kadhafi Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice assistant secretary Israel Hernandez - - Search: Primary Navigation Copyright © 2008 . All rights reserved. The information contained in the AFP News report may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed without the prior written authority of Agence France Presse. 