    Skip:[ | | | | ] Advertisement Advertisement Search for: Tenure Wed 8 October 2008 Skip to [ ] Click on images - -   - Main Page Content: Blues CDs recorded to support Oxfam 7 October, 2008 By Kat Baker Bar celebrates its 21st birthday by producing CDs for charity A music venue is celebrating its 21st birthday by raising funds for charity with a collection of its greatest hits. Simon and Sharon Colgan, who run the Blues Bar in Harrogate, Yorkshire, have created three CDs and the profits from the sales will all go to Oxfam. The compilations will feature tracks by artists who have performed at the venue over the past 21 years and will include traditional, acoustic and alternative blues. Simon said: ýWeýd been considering creating a CD for some time, but the Blues Barýs 21st birthday provided the perfect opportunity for us to put together a soundtrack that would represent a journey of the barýs musical offerings. ýWe wanted to mark the occasion but we didnýt want it just to be a money-spinner ý it needed to have real value.ý The Blues Bar is next door to an Oxfam shop, and the licensees have developed a strong relationship with the charity and its employees. Over the years they have hosted various Oxjam gigs ý the music festival that raises money for the charity. Matt Stephenson, the local Oxjam coordinator, asked the couple if they would produce the CD for charity. ýItýs natural that we would work with them to raise money during the Oxjam campaign, they have been outstandingly supportive over the yearsý said Simon. The CDs will go on sale at the end of the month and can be bought from either the Blues Bar or selected Oxfam shops in Yorkshire. Oxjamýs Nicki Hind said: ýBlues Bar customers were extremely generous during the previous Oxjam campaigns and we are hoping that the new CDs will help raise peopleýs awareness of this yearýs campaign.ý Did you know that the Publican can send you regular updates about the stories that matter? (for free!) to receive regular email newsletters. Want to save this article for later? Share it with others? Use the buttons below or click to find out more. Main site navigation : Skip:[ ] Secondary site navigation : Main site navigation end Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement   - - Advertisement All rights reserved. Your use of this site indicates your agreement to be bound by our terms and conditions. with any queries. Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement This is the end of the page Skip:[ | | | | ] 