    | Hearing / Deafness News University Of Queensland Guest Speaker - Multiple-channel Cochlear Implant Pioneer - Brings Music To The Ears Main Category: Also Included In: ; Article Date: 07 Oct 2008 - 2:00 PDT Current Article Ratings: Patient / Public: Health Professional: Article Opinions: Professor Graeme Clark, the pioneer of the multiple-channel cochlear implant (bionic ear), will speak at the UQ Medical Society's ES Meyers Memorial Lecture on Friday, October 10. The outstanding work of Professor Clark, who was awarded the Companion of the Order of Australia (AC) in 2004, has been implanted in more than 100,000 people worldwide. Professor Clark is also the founder and research director of the Bionic Ear Institute and has received multiple honorary doctorates from universities around the world. The free lecture is named after Dr Errol Solomon Meyers, one of the founding fathers of The University of Queensland Medical Society and an advocate in professional health education in Queensland. Dr Solomon was also a leader in postgraduate medical education. Each year, UQ's Medical Society invites a keynote speaker from the fields of medicine, science, sports, art, literature or diplomacy to talk. Past guest speakers have included biologist Lord Robert Winston, Nobel Laureate Dr Peter Doherty, author Lord Jeffrey Archer and mountaineer and diplomat Sir Edmund Hillary. This is the 51st year the lecture will be held, with participation numbers in previous years in excess of 2000 people. A donation will be made on the night to the Ashintosh Trust, the charity established by UQ'S Medical Society. The lecture will be held at The University of Queensland's St Lucia campus, UQ Centre Exhibition Hall, 6.30pm for a 7pm start. Please rate this article: (Hover over the stars then click to rate) Patient / Public: or Health Professional: Useful Links Add to: Contact Our News Editors For any corrections of factual information, or to contact the editors please use our . Please send any medical news or health news press releases to: © 2008 News Category Menu > Categories A-B > Categories C-D > Categories E-G > Categories H-L > Categories M-O > Categories P-R > Categories S-Z News Options Navigation Links Health Professional Sites Patient Information Hubs Latest News For Hearing / Deafness 07 Oct 2008 02 Oct 2008 29 Sep 2008 Today's Featured Health Videos Because bacteria hate the cold, freezing food can keep some perishables safe for months. But in order to keep bacteria at bay, it's also important to know how to defrost frozen food. more videos are available in our . Most Popular Categories 