    Wednesday, October 08 - 2008 : : Browse related articles Experience adrenaline-fuelled month with Dreamdays and Adrenaline Sports Live This November, Dreamdays has paired up with Adrenaline Sports Live, to show off a host of adventure firsts in the Middle East. United Arab Emirates: 6 hours, 57 minutes ago Experience adrenaline-fuelled month with Dreamdays and Adrenaline Sports Live. sponsored link related stories Running at the Abu Dhabi National Exhibition Centre (ADNEC) between the 13th and 15th November 2008 the Adrenaline Sports Live festival will be bursting with action and adventure and Dreamdays will be on hand to provide visitors with a taste of some truly unique action sports and adventures. Chris Fountain, Group Director of CMPi, Adrenaline Sports Live organisers, said: 'We are delighted to have Dreamdays onboard, their variety of activities and experiences is unrivalled and we are eager to see what they will be bringing down to the festival for visitors.' Bringing the Blokart to the Middle East for the first time, Dreamdays will be showing off what these exciting machines can do. Experience the thrill of land sailing in the light and versatile wind-powered karts that can reach speeds of up to 90km/h. If karts aren't you're thing, you are bound to find something that is - Adrenaline Sports Live and Dreamdays will also be putting on public display Zorbing, Wakeboarding, Jet Skiing, Paintballing and many more exciting activities. Fashid Rahimkhani, Managing Director, Dreamdays, commented: 'We are thrilled that an event such as this is coming to the region, the weather and conditions here make it the perfect environment for enjoying many outdoor adrenaline and adventure sports, there is so much to do in the UAE, this is the perfect opportunity to get people really excited about these sports.' When you book any of the dozens of Dreamdays experiences on offer at Dreamdays' website between the 1st September and 13th November you will also receive a free pass to the 3 day Adrenaline Sports Live Festival. 'Both Dreamdays and Adrenaline Sports Live offer new, exciting experiences and it made sense to bring the two names together to create the ideal platform for the public to try something different, unique, and full of adrenaline! We can't wait for this November and all that Adrenaline Sports Live has to offer,' added Rahimkhani. ARTICLE OPTIONS ADD ARTICLE TO to request more information from Dreamdays Related site: Notes and media contacts For more information and Dreamdays bookings please call 800 2080. About Dreamdays: Conceived in 2005 as the first provider of lifetime experiences in the UAE, Dreamdays aims to meet the wishes of its customers who wish to fulfill their lifetimes' fantasies. Since its conception, Dreamdays' range of activities has steadily increased and the company now boasts in excess of 100 experiences including dream holidays, adventure, charters and cruises, artistic workshops, water paradise and Holy Ramadan. Dreamdays prides itself on its no-nonsense, customer friendly approach. The business is based on the internet, with the website providing as much information as possible to the client, as well as in retail outlets including Virgin Megastores. Dreamdays has always believed in having a full customer service team to offer help, advice and sales support to clients. For further information, kindly contact: Aimee Murthy Account Manager momentum creative communications P.O. Box 24554 Dubai, UAE t : +971 4 390 1630 f : +971 4 390 4516 Posted by Siba Sami Ammari Wednesday, October 08 - 2008 at 08:25 UAE local time (GMT+4) Replication or redistribution in whole or in part is expressly prohibited without the prior written consent of AME Info FZ LLC / Emap Limited. : : Browse related articles Today's most read articles: » » » » » Most read articles the past week: » » » » » Current rating: 10% This press release is not rated by enough users Disclaimer: Articles in this section are primarily provided directly by the companies appearing or PR agencies which are solely responsible for the content. The companies concerned may use the above content on their respective web sites provided they link back to http://www.ameinfo.com Any opinions, advice, statements, offers or other information expressed in this section of the AME Info Web site are those of the authors and do not necessarily reflect the views of AME Info FZ LLC / Emap Limited. AME Info FZ LLC / Emap Limited is not responsible or liable for the content, accuracy or reliability of any material, advice, opinion or statement in this section of the AME Info Web site. For details about submitting your stories, please - all content published is subject to our News Releases Daily News Updates Video Audio Financial Markets Country Focus News and Comment Industry Focus Audited Unique Users Mar 2008: 1,185,188 Sponsored Links Email newsletters » » 301,193 companies from 14 Middle East countries. The news you choose Add Dreamdays to your personal Watchlist and get notified when new articles are posted here. » | » » » 1,549 upcoming events in the Middle East. © 1996 - 2008 AME Info FZ LLC / Emap Limited. All rights reserved. Version 2.2.0 | | | | | | | | 