          Web site of the Daily Star, Hammond, Louisiana :: Search Archives: Search Classifieds: Falcons test wings vs. Cubs | | | Text Size By John Lenz Monday, August 25, 2008 9:19 AM CDT LOOKING FOR DAYLIGHT—STA RB Josh Reed (5), who later scored one of the Falcons’ two TDs, looks for a cutback lane as University High defender Nyles Johnson (11) closes in during Friday’s scrimmage at Strawberry Stadium. Photo by John Lenz St. Thomas Aquinas offered few good reasons to lesson expectations for the Falcons' 2008 season in their scrimmage with University High Friday night at Strawberry Stadium. STA's effort was hardly flawless, and the Falcon coaches will still have to earn their money in the next two weeks before the season opener. But against a very solid U-High team, the Falcons had big plays in the running game, they threw the ball effectively at times, and they defended very well against one of the state's top-tier quarterback prospects. All in all, it left STA coach John White most eager to watch the film. "I thought the effort was great, and I thought both teams hit each other pretty well,” said White, whose team has been hampered by a swamped practice field that has limited its work all week. ADVERTISEMENT “We looked a little sluggish, our timing offensively,” White said. “But I thought our defense got after it pretty good. And I thought our offense got better as the scrimmage went along. I thought our conditioning was OK - but it needs to be better. It needs to be a lot better.” Start with a defense that forced the Cubs and quarterback Barrett Bailey into four consecutive three-and-outs on the first series. U-High did threaten on its second series, driving to the STA 16 thanks to a pass plays of 29- and 18-yards by their backup QB. But the Falcons stopped the drive there on a pass breakup by Brandon Robertson, and the Falcons did not allow another first down on four sets of downs after that. “We flew to the ball, missed some tackles but we had enough guys around to bring them down,” White said. “We put a new defensive scheme in. I don't think it's complicated; the kids kind of thought it was at once, but now I think they're sold on it. I think they like it now.” Offensively, the Falcons gashed the Cubs with their running game, highlighted by Josh Reed's 70-yard touchdown breakout and another 25-yard run on their final series. “I know our running game is going to be there,” White said. “We were playing vanilla offensively as far as running the ball tonight. And you need to be because you need to work fundamentals. But we did hit some big plays.” But what White really wanted to see was his passing game click early. Quarterback Raymone Andrews was 5-for-13 passing, including a 28-yard completion and a 30-yard highlight reel touchdown pass to tight end Ryan Gamble. “I wanted to focus on the passing game,” White said. “Last year it clicked midway through the season. We need it to start early this season. We need to get confidence. And I thought as the game went a long we got confidence. “One dimensional is not going to get you. You've got to be two-dimensional.” STA now gears up for its appearance in the Hammond Jamboree on Thursday, playing in the 6 p.m. game against Ponchatoula High in Tornado Alley. Comment Blog - Note: All Comments Subject To Approval Comments are limited to 200 words or less. (optional) Current Word Count:   COMMENT RULES Comment posters are responsible for the opinions they express and the accuracy of the information they provide. We urge comment writers to treat this as a public forum where manners matter. We encourage a collegial, non-insulting tone. Be aware, in accordance with the Communications Decency Act and provisions upheld in judicial appeal, that you are responible for comments posted on this Web site. Do not post: Potentially libelous statements or damaging innuendo. Obscene, explicit, or racist language. Personal attacks, insults or threats. The use of another person's real name to disguise your identity. Comments unrelated to the story. If you believe that a commenter has not followed these guidelines, please use our online . Thank you for your comments! Copyright © 2008 Hammond Daily Star - www.hammondstar.com. All rights reserved. | Unathorized reproduction is prohibited. Read our 