    News Web Services Classified Advertising Subscribe Now! Contact Front Page Prints 2008-10-08 11:16:53 Hayne, Tupou to play for Pacific teams Jarryd Hayne will play for Fiji and Anthony Tupou for Tonga in the Rugby League World Cup after both players failed to win selection on the Australia team. Both selections are subject to clearance from the Rugby League International Federation. Tupou's naming Wednesday in the Tongan side comes just five months after he played for Australia in the Centenary test against New Zealand in May. Other National Rugby League selections include Wes Naiqama and Ashton Sims for Fiji, Melbourne prop Brett White for Ireland and Matt Utai and Tony Puletua in the Samoa squad. Michael Robertson, who scored three tries for Manly in the team's 40-0 grand final win last weekend over Melbourne, will play for Scotland. Penrith center Michael Jennings, Parramatta's Feleti Mateo, Tony Williams and Fuifui Moimoi, and Wests Tigers winger Taniela Tuiaki were also named in the Tonga team to be coached by former Australian test lock Jim Dymock. Both Moimoi and Tuiaki will need special dispensation from the RLIF to play. They both changed allegiances last year when they elected to play for New Zealand in the end-of-season test against Australia. International eligibility rules state a player can only switch allegiances once within the two-year period between World Cups. The 10-team World Cup, to be played over four weeks in Australia, begins Oct. 25 when England takes on Papua New Guinea at Townsville, Queensland. Australia, England, New Zealand and Papua New Guinea will play in one pool and provide three of the tournament semifinalists. The other semifinalist will come from the winner of two pools containing Fiji, France, and Scotland, and Ireland, Samoa and Tonga. The semifinals are scheduled for Nov. 15-16 in Sydney and Brisbane, and the final will be held Nov. 22 in Brisbane. ©2008 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. © The Post Publishing Public Co., Ltd. 2007 Comments to: Advertising enquiries to: Printed display ad enquiries to: Full contact details: 