    Search Search vnunet.com Search industry Search web Primary Navigation Hot topics: Categories Advertisements Where am I? > > > Interface increases Sun exposure Distributor appoints new head of Sun business unit to spearhead growth Written by Sara Yirrell , 07 Oct 2008 has recruited a new head for its growing business in the form of John Taylor. Taylor joined the distributor two months ago from Horizon, which was snapped up by rival earlier this year (Channelweb, 18 April). Interface was itself the subject of an acquisition this year by (Channelweb 4 July). Advertisement Speaking to CRN, Taylor, who also spent a decade working at Sun dealing with both indirect and direct partners/customers, said he aims to help Sun gain more traction in the volume market place with both its x86 and Sparc ranges. “What needs to change is that Sun needs to be more vocal about its good points,” Taylor said. “The market needs a fresh approach and fresh ideas. We as a distributor have traditionally operated in the volume space, but we want to up our game and service the enterprise marketplace as well.” “Sun has never been good at talking about what it does, but if you look at the mix of indirect and direct, I think you see a mix of business that is much more heavily weighted towards the channel,” he added. He said the distributor would be looking to recruit new resellers that operate in the x86 marketplace but do not actually work with Sun, as well as existing Sun resellers that need to understand more about the x86 range. “If this brings incremental Sparc business as well, it would be rude to ignore it,” he said. The distributor is also building up its in-house Sun team to help with its expansion plans, Taylor revealed. Share this: Tags: Further reading Related articles Related whitepapers Related jobs Do you agree? Most read stories Most commented stories Search vnunet IThound Top categories Job of the week More Search thousands of IT jobs : Search thousands of IT jobs: Hiring now on ComputingCareers: Related IT jobs More Search thousands of IT jobs : Search thousands of IT jobs: Advertisement Newsletter signup Sign up for our range of FREE newsletters: Existing User Newsletter user login: Enter email address to edit your newsletter preferences Watch 6.49 MB Podcast Special: Views from the Valley 14.35 MB Computing podcast - Next-generation broadband Britain; and we report from Gartner's IT security summit 3.43 MB Podcast Special: Views from the Valley Google Android Are you intending to try out a Google Android mobile phone? Deutsche Telekom unit at centre of new scandal BusinessObjects XI 3.1 offers increased integration, speed and scalability Business and legal teams must act now, says Microsoft Latest handset adds feedback mechanism to touch screen Primary Navigation Secondary navigation © Incisive Media Ltd. 2008 Incisive Media Limited, Haymarket House, 28-29 Haymarket, London SW1Y 4RX, is a company registered in the United Kingdom with company registration number 04038503 Search vnunet.com Site credentials: Business & technology websites: Blogs & community: Software downloads: Hardware reviews: Tools & resources: 